What is the free float for Activity C? | 5 days
What is the shortest time possible to complete this project? (critical path)  | 12 days
You work as an engineer for a large engineering firm. The last week you have been corresponding back and fourth with the supervisor of your department about the horizontal stabilizers required for the wings on a new aircraft you are designing. Which communication dimension does this represent? | Vertical
Many organizations treat contract administration as an administrative function separate from the project organization. Who carries out the function of contract administration in such organizations? | The Procurement Administrator
A project team collects project work performance data and transforms that into work performance information for the key project stakeholders on a monthly basis. Which of the following does not provide a good platform to share this information with the stakeholders? | Project file updates
John is the project manager of a project that is in an early phase. He needs to estimate costs but finds that he has a limited amount of detailed information about the project. Which of the following estimation techniques would be least suited to his requirements? | Bottom-up Estimating
Peter is managing a software development project for the first time. He is facing issues with scheduling meetings with the senior project managers at the company as they are extremely busy with their current assignments. Peter needs to understand what went right and wrong on previous similar projects so that he can manage his project better. In this situation, what should Peter do? | Review lessons learned from the past similar projects.
You have been asked to determine the logical relationships, leads, and lags for the activities that make up a project. What would be the BEST technique to use? | Critical Path Method
A statement of work (SOW) is a narrative description of the products or services to be delivered by the project. It usually references all of the following except: | The business case
The Conduct Procurements process receives bids or proposals and applies criteria to select one or more sellers who are both qualified and acceptable as a seller. Which of the following techniques is not a valid technique for this process? | Make-or-buy analysis
John is in the process of preparing the project performance report for the team meeting. He is expecting many questions from his stakeholders on the budget and schedule. He calculates the following values; Budget at Completion (BAC) = $22,000, Earned Value (EV) = $13,000, Planned Value (PV) = $ 14,000, Actual cost (AC) = $15,000. | $24,000 – If the project work is performed at the budgeted rate, the Estimation at Completion can be determined using the formula (EAC) = AC + (BAC – EV)
Your team has built an exotic sports car for a wealthy client. Every deliverable has been verified by the project team against the quality requirements and accepted by the client. Now the Project Manager is reviewing the car to ensure it meets the specifications of the client, as agreed to in the project plan. What project management process is represented here? | Closing
You are a Project Manager for an automotive parts company. Your organization has been hired to produce clutches for an exotic car company which will involve the design and production of custom clutches. During the course of the project you are reviewing a quality control statistics chart that examines every clutch produced for the month and notice several cases where the spring component of the clutch is expanding with too much force and is falling outside the upper control limit. Which type of Quality Control tool are you MOST LIKELY making use of? | Control charts
Which of the following Project Scope Management processes documents a configuration management system? | Plan Scope Management
As a project manager based at the customer location for a performing organization, you strike up a rapport with a customer manager. As the project progresses, the manager asks you to make certain changes to the project scope and wants this to be handled on an informal basis. You should: | Explain to the manager that you would need to formally document these as part of project scope change and put it through the change management process.
When developing your project schedule, you have asked everyone to provide a list of planned vacations over the next 3 months and you have applied this into the tasks that each person is responsible for. This is an example of what tool? | Resource Calendars
You have been asked to create a graphical display of schedule-related information listing schedule activities on the left side of the chart, dates on the top, and activity durations as date-placed horizontal bars on the right side. What would such a chart be called? | Gantt chart
A key output of Plan Resource Management is a list of project roles and responsibilities. What should this document include? | Role, Authority, Responsibility, Competency
The legal nature of the contractual relationship between a buyer and a seller requires that appropriate legal counsel be involved in the project, for specific activities. Which of the following phases requires legal counsel to be involved. | Each procurement management process
All of the following are components of an effective change control, EXCEPT: | Variance analysis
A first-time project manager decided that he would have a ‘perfect project’. He informed the customer that this project would not accept change requests of any kind and the scope would need to be detailed out accurately right at the start of the project. The customer agreed to this request. What would your comment on this situation be? | This is unrealistic and impractical. Change is inevitable and rather than look at a ‘no change’ project, it would be more in the project interests to plan for a robust change control process.
A project is contracted as a Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee (CPFF) type of contract. The targeted cost is $200,000 with a fee of $30,000. If the project comes in at $170,000, what would be the cost of the total contract? | $200,000
As part of stakeholder analysis, a project manager drew up a power / interest grid. The project manager identified that a stakeholder could be classified low on the “interest” scale, and also as low on the “power” scale. What strategy should be used for such a stakeholder? | Monitor
David is managing a telecom network deployment project. The buyer of the telecom network is an external entity. Recently, the customer has requested all the future project updates to be automatically posted to their information system. In order to implement this, the project team needs to customize their project management information system so that it can be integrated with the customer’s information system. This is a new customer requirement that was not a part of the original project’s scope. What should the project manager do? | Initiate the formal change control process.
Which of these is not a legitimate model used to analyze stakeholders? | Sufficiency model
If you have an unresolved issue while working on a project, what is the best way to communicate that issue? | Create an issue log
The most recent analysis of Microcorp’s new fabrication facility renovation shows a CPI value of less than 1.0 What does this indicate? | The cost has overrun estimates.
A software development project team has determined the best way to mitigate the risk of not having the computational resources to complete all bug testing on schedule is to add 3 more servers to the test bed. However, the network may not have enough capacity to handle the extra load of those three servers and could fail. This type of risk is called a ___________________ risk. | Secondary
Which of the following statements about products and projects is true? | One product may have many projects associated with it.
The business case to justify a project typically contains: | Cost Benefit Analysis
As part of the quality control in your project, you are looking at a technique which shows the history and pattern of variation. This is a line graph which shows data points plotted in the order in which they occurred. You are most likely looking at a: | Control chart
A hierarchical structure of resources organized by resource type category and resource type used in resource leveling schedules is known as: | Resource Breakdown Structure
You are currently leading a project and performing the work defined in the project management plan. This activity relates to which of the following processes? | Direct and Manage Project Work
The accuracy of estimates of the cost of a project will _____________ over the life of a project. | increase
Peter is a project manager who is assigned to a foreign country to manage a project. The project is a large one and comprises of smaller sub-teams, contributing to the entire project. As part of rewards and recognition within the project, Peter plans for a team award for the best sub-team. The Recognition and Rewards is associated with which of the following processes? | Develop Team
Body language plays an important role in effective communications. This relates to which of the following communications dimensions? | Nonverbal
A requesting organization for a project created a document that included the business need and the cost-benefit analysis. What would this document be termed as? | The business case
You just found out that a major subcontractor for your project consistently provides deliverables late. The subcontractor approaches you and asks you to continue accepting late deliverables in exchange for a decrease in project costs. This offer is an example of: | Compromise
A RACI chart is an example of a ___________ . | Responsibility assignment matrix
After receiving some news about a delay on one of your project tasks, you reviewed the schedule to determine how it will impact the project. While there is a substantial delay on this task, it is not a critical path item and will not impact delivery of any of your milestones. Another project manager advises you to only present the milestone chart during your meeting with the project stakeholders and tell them the project is progressing as planned. What do you do? | Present the schedule in a milestone chart and disclose full details of the delay.
What term defines the work needed to complete a product, service, or result? | Project scope
A project manager is working on the Manage Quality phase of a project. He is looking for an iterative means to improve quality and eliminate activities that don’t add value. Which of the following will help him do this? | Continuous process improvement
Why are the approved change requests input to the Direct and Manage Project Work process? | Approved change requests are implemented by the project team during the Direct and Manage Project Work process.
You have successfully passed your PMP exam and are leading a project to replace the storage devices in a data center. In the following week, you and your team of experts will be meeting with a storage device vendor to discuss the status of their deliverables that are due at week’s end. What management process do these activities reflect? | Control Procurements
Which of the following is not an organizational process asset that is used during the Plan Resource Management process? | Standardized stakeholder list
Which of the following inaccurately describes a prototype? | Requirements from a prototype are usually insufficient to move to the design phase.
Product scope is measured against the product requirements whereas project scope is measured against: | The project scope statement and its associated WBS and WBS dictionary
A project charter that formally authorized a project was created. The project charter documented the initial requirements to satisfy stakeholders’ needs and expectations. How often should the project charter ideally be revised? | Never
A project manager prepared a presentation that included data on utilization of resources on her project, improvements in efficiency of the staff on the project, and the cost savings. She is doing this as part of what process? | Monitor and Control Project Work
You are managing a project with over 130 procurement contracts. Because of the number of contracts, your project team includes a procurement manager and a procurement assistant. Company policy requires that certain types of procurements be advertised to potential bidders by means of newspaper advertisements. The procurement assistant typically reviews the bids received and short lists the suppliers for further review by the procurement team. During a meeting to review and select a vendor from the short listed suppliers, you discover that one of the suppliers is a company owned by your cousin. Which of the following is the best course of action? | Ask the procurement manager to lead the vendor selection process for this contract and excuse yourself from the review.
A company is looking for an experienced Project Manager to manage a large construction project. You meet all of the requirements for the position except for one. The organization is looking for a certified PMP with five years of experience and you have four years of experience managing similar projects. What is the BEST way to fill out your application? | Show how you meet the requirements but include your actual years of experience
You are managing an electronic chip design project for a customer. There are a number of engineers and subject matter experts from the customer’s organization that have been assigned as resources to the project, as well as several additional design engineers that have been supplied by your company. All the engineers have been involved in the development of a prototype chip; a very time consuming and expensive process. Upon the completion of the prototype, you submit it for review to ensure that there are no patent infringement issues with the design. When the results come back, it is determined that there are multiple issues that could result in an intellectual property dispute with the patent owners, should the prototype design be released commercially. The affected prototype elements were developed by resources from your company as well as your customer’s organization. What should you do? | Request permission to use the copyright material
While sequencing activities for a project, the project management team applied certain discretionary dependencies. This was based on their knowledge of best practices within the project application area. What is the potential risk involved in using such dependencies? | They can create arbitrary float values and limit later scheduling options.
You are in the final phase of a low cost car manufacturing project. This project, as designed, has delivered a low cost car that runs on the battery. However, to close this project, many administrative standards are required to be followed in order to avoid auditing from Government authorities. Since your organization possesses experts who have tremendous knowledge in closing procedures and standards, you would like to use them to close this project. This effort is an instance of: | Using expert judgment in closing the project
20% of the work was completed in a project. At this stage the project manager determined that the budget at completion (BAC) was no longer viable and developed a forecasted estimate at completion (EAC). What index can the project manager use to look at the calculated projection of cost performance that must be achieved on the remaining work? | To-Complete Performance Index (TCPI)
Some tools or techniques can be used across different project processes to plan, execute or control the characteristics of project elements. Which of the following is used as a tool in both Control Quality and Plan Quality Management processes? | Statistical sampling
You are at work related social event and a colleague tells you another project manager has just hired her niece’s engineering firm for a city public improvement project that you are managing. You know that this company’s proposal did not meet the pre-defined selection criteria to be considered for award. What do you do? | Ask the project manager about what you have just heard. If your suspicions are confirmed, escalate the issue to the appropriate management.
The Control Procurements process ensures that the seller’s performance meets contractual requirements and that the buyer performs according to the terms of the contract. This process is part of which process group? | Monitoring & Controlling
You are managing a project for your company constructing an office complex in another country. The construction work on 2 of the buildings is complete and is ready for move-in. However, the construction foreman informs you that a fee must be paid to a local government agency in order to be issued an occupancy permit for all new construction in that country. What should you do? | Pay the fee.
You have identified a risk that will negatively affect your security project. You and your team have decided to use an older encryption technology because of the high risk associated with the new technology. What type of risk strategy are you using? | Avoidance
You have just joined a new organization as a project manager. You have heard a number of rumors about the procurement manager having possible underhanded dealings with suppliers. However, you have not been given any proof that these rumors are true. Your project requires a large number of dump trucks. Company policy mandates that all purchases go through the procurement department, rather than being handled by departmental employees. The value of the dump truck purchase is USD $395,000 and the contract was awarded to a supplier regularly used by your company. Shortly after taking delivery of the dump trucks, you learn that the procurement manager is driving a new car. What should you do? | Do nothing.
You have met with your project sponsor and have been told that the project MUST be completed by the end of the year, no exceptions. This should be included in the project scope statement as a: | Project Constraint
A project manager drew up a resource histogram. On plotting the histogram, he found that some bars extended beyond the maximum available hours. What does this usually signify? | This means that a resource optimization strategy needs to be applied
You applied for a project coordinator position in your organization. You have recently met with your director to learn more about the job functions of that position. Your director indicates that it is the functional managers who control the resources and not you in your new position. Which of the following represents the organization structure that you will be working in if you are chosen as a project coordinator? | Weak matrix
Which of the following is a control tool that helps the project management team quantify and categorize defects according to sources? | Pareto diagram
Emily is producing a documentary on African wildlife. Although the project key stakeholders are very supportive of the project, Emily believes that there are some stakeholders’ concerns that might become major problems in the future. What should Emily do? | Treat them as project issues and address them immediately.
Which of the following statements about team-building activities is incorrect? | The objective of team-building activities is to help team members work individually and effectively.
A project manager analyzed the project’s communication requirements and decided that 10 out of the 30 stakeholders in the project would only need voicemail updates of certain information. This type of communication method is called: | Push communication
You are the project manager of a project executing work under a contract signed with a buyer organization. Just after the project has started, you notice that the buyer organization had made a mistake in the financial terms and your organization stands to benefit considerably through this oversight. What should your stance be? | Bring the error to the notice of the buyer organization and have an amendment made to the contract since this was in good faith.
Which of the following processes goes beyond the distribution of relevant information and seeks to ensure that the information being communicated to project stakeholders has been appropriately generated, as well as received and understood? | Manage Communications
Jane is currently developing her project’s stakeholder register. She wants to identify the internal and external parties that are involved in the project. Which of the following documents can provide this information to Jane ? | Project charter
The Risk Management plan will usually contain the definitions of risk probability and impact. Which of the following has the highest impact (negative) on a project? | A rating of 0.8 on the impact scale
Hillbrand Dairies is structured so project managers share responsibility with the functional managers for assigning priorities and directing the work of persons assigned to the project. This is an example of a  organization. | Matrix
Which of these is not a component of the scope baseline that is contained in the project management plan? | Requirements documentation
A project manager wants to proactively monitor a manufacturing process in order to determine if the quality level is within acceptable limits for that process. What tool will help with this? | Control charts
As the Project Manager for Midway Carnival Rides, you are starting off on the Define Scope process. Which of the following is a key input to the process? | Project Charter
Your company is planning to bid on a project in an application area in which you have never worked before. You are aware that your company does not have any resources with the necessary expertise. Your management is pressurizing you to submit a bid. What should you do? | Explain the gaps to your management clearly and also explain that this will be a stretch assignment. You can further explain to them that it is best to reveal to the potential buyer that your company does not possess the necessary skills, but are confident of ramping up the necessary skills and delivering the project successfully, based on your company’s track record.
You are reviewing the response to an RFP issued by your company for a project that will last a year and exceed USD $5 million. Three vendors have been short listed. | Send the clarification to all three vendors.
You are in the middle of a risk assessment meeting with key stakeholders, customers and project team leaders. While identifying and assessing risks, you have realized that two key stakeholders are overemphasizing the impact of a risk. What is the BEST step you must take to avoid unfairness or bias when assessing risks? | Perform qualitative risk analysis to identify risk attitudes
Peter has been working for a retail company as a project manager. With his positive thinking and good managerial skills he turned many potentially disastrous projects into successes. Because of his expertise, the company high level executives offered him a group project manager position for a newly started environmental project. However, Peter learned that in his newly assigned project he may have to offer bribes to get the Government licenses. What should Peter do in such a situation? | Reject the offer because project managers should not engage in an unethical conduct
Jane is estimating the overall expected cost of a new ERP system deployment project using the actual costs of an earlier similar ERP system deployment project as the basis for the cost. This is what type of estimating? | Analogous
While analyzing a project, the project manager calculated the ratio of the Earned Value (EV) to the Actual Costs (AC) and obtained a value of 1.2. The project manager decided that this was an unfavorable condition to the project and decided to take corrective action. What is your view? | The project manager is not correct. The ratio of EV to AC is called Cost Performance Index and a ratio greater than 1 is favorable to the project
Which of these is accurate regarding the Develop Schedule process? | The critical path method is a schedule network analysis technique that is performed using the schedule model
What type of method can be used to eliminate personal bias during the process of selecting a seller? | Source Selection Criteria
During a project status review meeting, some of the project team members have raised a concern over the complexity of the project performance information reporting requirements. The project team is of the view that the work performance data should be sufficient for reporting. Which of the following is the best response that should be given to team members? | The work performance data alone is not sufficient for effective decision making.
While managing a project, you decide to prepare an email for the project stakeholders describing the current project status. This is best described as an example of: | Informal communication
You are working on an upgrade to a call distribution system for a call center, however you are finding it extremely difficult to get the proper resources assigned and tasks completed because the Call Center Manager is in control of the budget. You have just realized that you work in what type of an organization? | Functional
You are running one week behind on a project due to the late delivery by a vendor. You are forced to compress your project schedule due to a government mandated end date that constrains your project. After meeting with your team, the decision is to work several tasks in parallel that were scheduled to be run consecutively. This is an example of? | Fast Tracking
How would you calculate your EAC if the ETC work will be performed at the budgeted rate? | EAC = AC + BAC – EV
One of the stakeholders of a project initiated a change request which was then documented in the change control system. In general, who would be responsible for approving or rejecting the change request? | An authority within the project management team or external organization.
Which of the following is not an example of soft skills? | Intelligence quotient
John is the project manager of a global project. He finds that of late, there has been a deterioration in the quality of communication between various team members across the globe. What would you term this? | Noise
You the project manager responsible for building a 100,000 sq. ft. data center. One of the schedule activities in your plan is to install the Computer Room Air Conditioning (CRAC) units, however in order to start the installation of the units the raised floor in the data center must be completely installed first, so the units have something to be bolted on to. This is an example of what type of dependency? | Mandatory
Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) is a non-proprietary approach to Quality Management. This is an analytical procedure in which: | Each potential failure mode in every component of a product is analyzed to determine its effect on the reliability of that component and, by itself or in combination with other possible failure modes, on the reliability of the product.
You are about to contract out a project to a service provider. However, at the time of awarding the contract, you are not sure of the total effort involved. Since the scope of work cannot be accurately estimated, you want to agree the per unit rates for difference services. Which of the following would best suit your purpose? | Time & Material (T&M)
While performing an audit on a project run by another project manager, a certified PMP, you find that project processes have not been followed, and that company procurement policies have been repeatedly violated. What do you do? | Notify the appropriate management immediately.
As the project manager of a development project, you are aware that there is a slight defect in the product developed, as a result of which it will fail to meet certain regulatory standards. This was due to faulty requirements. You are also aware that the product will continue to function properly even though it fails to meet that standard. Your customer manager asks you to certify that the product meets the necessary regulatory standards, stating that this will not be verified when the report is submitted to the necessary authorities, so there is no issue with your certifying. Your stance is that: | You will not certify that a product meets certain regulations when it does not, even though the product continues to function well.
A project manager has scheduled technical training for her project team members in order to increase their skills. During which of the following processes these training will be delivered to the team members? | Develop Team
You are the sponsor of a project that is designed to record phone calls for quality control purposes. You are in the process of writing the charter, what is NOT an input into this document? | Project Scope Statement
Which of the following processes gives the project management team insights into the health of the project? | Monitor and Control Project Work
Which process of integrative project management documents the actions necessary to define, prepare, integrate, and coordinate all subsidiary plans into a project management plan? | Develop Project Management Plan
You are looking at various process improvement models. Which of the following is not a process improvement model? | Shewhart-Deming
You are a consulting project manager and have been contracted by an investment bank to run a large information technology project that is expected to last 15 months. During the Direct and Manage Project Work process, you discover that several regulatory requirements have not been addressed in the project management plan. Failure to meet these requirements could result in legal action against the company. However, implementing the technology to comply with these regulations exceeds the budget and scope of the project, and could result in the cancellation of the project. What should you do? | Submit a change request to incorporate the missed requirements to the project’s scope.
The Earned Value Management methodology can be used as a means to: | Forecast future performance based on past performance
What similarity exists between a cost-reimbursable contract and a time and material contract? | They are open ended
You are a certified PMP, and have been contact by PMI as part of an investigation they are conducting into allegations of improper conduct by your manager, also a PMP. A complaint has been filed stating that your manager has received bribes related to a large procurement contract on another project. PMI has asked if you would be able to provide information regarding this situation. What should you do? | Notify the appropriate management immediately.
You are the project manager for a Fortune 100 IT company and you are currently engaged in an important project. You want to choose the best contractor for a specialized task. What should you do to evaluate potential contractors? | Evaluate proposals
While rating a proposal, one of the requirements was “The proposed project manager needs to be a certified Project Management Professional, PMP® ” This is an example of: | Source Selection Criteria
There are several communication methods used to share and distribute information to stakeholders, team members and management. Which of the following communication methods are used during execution phase to notify the public about environmental changes your project is going to cause after implementation? | Pull communication
Peter’s project is in execution. The cost management plan and the project budget were approved by all key stakeholders during the planning phase of the project. Recently, the finance manager of the company has notified Peter that his project funding might suffer as another higher priority project has been initiated by the company. Peter is surprised as his project was also a high priority project for the company. What should Peter immediately do? | Negotiate for funds with the finance manager and the project sponsor
Your company took over the management of a project from another company that went out of business. To minimize disruptions related to the transition, your company hired a number of the employees from the other company. One of these employees has delivered a 300 page document a week ahead of schedule. However, while walking past his desk you notice he has a document opened on his computer with the logo of his former employer. You suspect that some of his work may have been taken from documentation that is the property of the other company. What do you do? | Determine if any materials belonging to the other company have been copied.
Emily is the project documents controller for a multi-million dollar telecom network deployment project. Emily has just received a document from the project manager. This document contains the project stakeholders’ communication requirements for the current project phase. Emily should update which of the following project documents with this information? | Stakeholder management plan
Which of the following is an output of the Conduct Procurements process? | Selected Sellers
You have been managing a research project that is intended to create Genetically Modified fruits using Genetic Engineering techniques. Since many legal issues are involved in this process, you created contingency allowances by using different quantitative analysis methods to account for cost uncertainty. You have just wrapped-up a brainstorming session with your team in the execution phase to monitor new risks evolved in the project over past few weeks and to establish new risk response plans. What should you do if you want to allocate more contingency reserves to account for new risks? | Perform the reserve analysis to compare the amount of contingency reserves remaining to the amount of risk remaining
Late in the project cycle, it was discovered that some of the project human resources needed to have been trained on a specific methodology. Ideally, where should these training needs have first been documented? | Staffing management plan
A project is contracted as a Cost-Plus-Incentive-Fee (CPIF) type of contract. The project is negotiated such that if the final costs are less than expected costs, the sharing formula for cost savings is 75:25. The targeted cost is US$ 100,000 with an 8% incentive fee on the targeted cost. If the project comes in at US$ 80,000, what would be the cost of the total contract? |  US$ 93,000
You are planning a storage device migration in a data center. During this phase of the project, who should be controlling the project? | Project Manager
A project needed to monitor the technical performance of the project and capture data related to how many errors or defects had been identified, and how many remained uncorrected. Which of the following techniques should the project use? | Histogram
Factors that influence conflict resolution methods include EXCEPT: | Political influence of the persons involved.
A project manager is confused about the perspective of the buyer-seller relationship in the context of project procurement management. How would your clarify this? | The buyer-seller relationship can exist at many levels on one project, and between organizations internal to and external to the acquiring organization.
The Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct has as its foundation four values identified by practitioners from the global project management community. They are: | Responsibility, respect, fairness and honesty
Which of the following is incorrect regarding a bidders conference? | Questions from each seller should be handled confidentially and not shared with other sellers.
You are fairly new to project management, but have been successfully managing a small project and now management has given you another project to manage, which you are excited about. However, the new project is growing exponentially everyday, you have also learned a project manager you work with managed a similar project last year. What should you do? | Obtain Historical Records and get guidance from the project manager
You are working with your team and are looking at the cost risks in the project. You are your team are currently creating a tornado diagram for the project risks. This is done as a part of which of the following processes? | Quantitative Risk Analysis
The document that formally authorizes a project is the: | Project Charter
During a presentation to management, you want to display the project schedule with only the key deliverables displayed. What is the correct tool for this purpose? | Milestone chart
The Risk Register contains details of all identified risks and current status. It is a document containing the results of: | Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis, Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis and Plan Risk Responses
The Identify Stakeholders process has four inputs. Three of them are project charter, enterprise environmental factors and organizational process assets. What is the fourth one? | Procurement documents
Which of the following may not be considered an attribute of a project? | The impact of a project usually ends when the project ends.
Which of the following models describes stakeholders based on their power, urgency and legitimacy? | Salience model
A project manager is determining dependencies that will require a lead or a lag to accurately define the logical relationship. Which of the following correctly describes leads or lags? | A lead allows an acceleration of the successor activity.
Which of the following is not a Tuckman’s team development stage? | Confronting
A first-time project manager was of the opinion that all training activities need to be planned. He discussed this with an experienced project manager, and understood that some training was necessarily unplanned. Which of the following correctly lists examples of unplanned training? | Training by observation, conversation, and project management appraisals
Two of your expert team members have been in a heated argument over the use of a new software product for your research project. Recently you noticed that the argument instead of increasing creativity, is causing conflict between the team members. To prevent the conflict from escalating, you want to resolve it by evaluating alternatives and open dialogue. All of the following statements about a conflict are false EXCEPT: | Conflict is inevitable in a project environment.
The WBS structure can be created in a number of forms except which of the following? | Using work packages as the second level of decomposition, with the project deliverables inserted at the third level.
Visiting a construction site to ensure the work being done is the same work called out in the requirements is called: | Scope validation
If you are influencing factors that create changes to the cost of the project, which process are you using? | Control Costs
In the earned value management technique, the cost performance baseline is referred to as: | Performance Measurement Baseline (PMB)
A project manager wishes to illustrate the connections between the work that needs to be done and the project team members. According to the PMBOK, the resulting document would be called: | Responsibility Assignment Matrix (RAM)
You are defining the schedule activities for your project and identifying deliverables at the lowest level in the Work Breakdown Structure (WBS). You find that there is insufficient definition of the project scope to decompose a branch of the WBS down to the work package level. You now look at using the last component in that branch of the WBS to develop a high-level project schedule for that component. Such a planning component is called: | A planning package
If you had an experience with a particularly good or poor performing vendor, what is the correct way to document this experience for future projects? | Create a seller performance evaluation
Your have recently finished an advanced project management training course that was paid for by your project budget. Because the budget for your project is not large enough to train any other resources on the project, your manager has asked you to make copies of the course materials and distribute them to the rest of the staff. What do you do? | Refuse the request.
Defense Dynamics has been awarded a fixed price project to design and build a military cargo jet. The design team is looking at ways to increase the cargo capacity of the plane while keeping manufacturing costs and the fuel efficiency of the final product within specific limits. The engineers on this team have identified factors that affect capacity, costs, and fuel efficiency and have created a statistical model of how these factors impact each other. The outcome of this model is a design with the highest cargo capacity and fuel efficiency at the lowest cost possible. What type of mathematical model is this called? | Design of Experiments
Close Project or Phase is the process of completing and concluding all activities across all process groups to officially close the project. Which of the following activities are NOT performed during this process? | Actions required to accept the deliverables
You are assisting another project manager interview candidates for a resource position on his project. While reviewing your interview notes together, the other project manager sorts the candidate’s resumes into two groups: one for further interviews, the other for candidates that did not meet the requirements for the position. You notice that he has placed several of the highly qualified candidates in the second pile, stating that those interviewees “did not fit the corporate profile.” Upon further review, you discover that these candidates are all of the same ethnic group. What do you do? | Report this to the appropriate management.
Which of the following is neither an input nor an output of the Direct and Manage Project Work process? | Approved deliverables
Peter is a project manager handling an Alternate water-supply project. During a project performance review, he notices the following: (i) Activity A, on the critical path, is delayed by 4 days. (ii) Activity B, not on the critical path, is delayed by 9 days. (iii) Activity C, on the critical path is delayed by 2 days (iv) Activity D, not on the critical path, is delayed by 5 days. | Activity A, Activity C, Activity B, Activity D
To assist with the selection of a supplier for a large procurement on your project, you’ve hired a consultant. The consultant has prepared an independent estimate to be used as a benchmark while reviewing bids on the RFP. The independent estimate is confidential and is not shared with any bidders. When the sealed bids are opened, you discover that only 1 supplier, has submitted a quote lower than the independent estimate. All other quotes are 45% to 70% higher than the benchmark. While discussing this development with members of the project team, you learn that the company with the lowest bids is owned by a distant relative of the consultant you hired to create the benchmark. What is the best course of action? | Review the RFP specifications and requirements.
During the planning phase of your project, your team decided to procure a certain brand of hardware because it had the lowest price and free shipping and installation. This approach saved $6,000 over the other brands being considered. Since that purchase, however, it has been discovered that the annual maintenance costs for this hardware are $2,500 per year, and $12,500 over the life of the hardware. These costs were not budgeted in the project, nor were they included in the TCO analysis that was done as part of the project business case. What should you do? | Notify the stakeholders immediately.
You are in a meeting with your senior manager who has been helping you to organize and manage a team of IT people with numerous backgrounds. While you are discussing the creativity and breakthrough performance your team is demonstrating now, your senior manager indicates that your team has moved from the storming to the performing stage. Which of the following explains the characteristic of the performing stage? | In the performing stage, the team function as a well organized unit and resolve issues effectively
In an ongoing project, the project sponsor and a manager of the performing organization are having conflicts. What would be your comment on this situation? | The project manager needs to step in and handle the stakeholders’ expectations. The stakeholders may have different objectives and interests in the project.
The project management plan can best be described as: | Integrating and coordinating all project plans to create a consistent, coherent document
As the Project Manager for Midway Carnival Rides, you are starting off on the Define Scope process. Which of the following is a key input to the process? | Project Charter
As project manager, you scheduled a status update meeting. During the meeting, a problem developed and the group discussed it. The day after the meeting, Kevin approached you and expressed his concern that the problem was not really resolved. After thinking about it, he felt that his concerns were still valid and should be addressed. What conflict resolution method was likely used at the status meeting? | Smoothing
A technique that calculates multiple project durations with different sets of activity assumptions and variables is called: | Simulation
During a discussion with the quality department, a project manager was given to understand that both prevention and inspection meant the same as applied to projects. However, he had a different understanding of the terms. What would you comment on this situation? | The project manager is correct. Prevention is about keeping errors out of the process whereas inspection is about keeping errors out of the hands of the customer.
Peter, a project manager, is updating the status of his project. Based on the performance indices, he expects the project to finish a month earlier than the planned finish date. However, he expects the project to exceed the budgeted costs. What can you say about the schedule performance index (SPI) of the project? | The SPI is greater than 1.0.
You are managing a project for a customer that has just gone bankrupt and is subject to liquidation proceedings. There are several outstanding invoices that this customer has not paid to your company. What should you do now? | Contact the appropriate management at your company for advice how to proceed.
Prioritization matrices are an important quality planning tool. They provide a way of ranking a diverse set of problems and/or issues by order of importance. How is this list usually generated? | Through brainstorming
When a project is performed under contract, the contractual provisions will generally be considered as  for the project. | Constraints
A project manager is considering risk in a project. When does risk come into play in a project? | As soon as a project is conceived
During a work breakdown structure meeting you have decomposed the deliverables into work packages and created your WBS dictionary. However, you now want to decompose the work packages to assist you in estimating, executing and control the project. These decomposed work packages are called? | Activities
You have assembled a group of subject matter experts (SMEs) to perform an exercise where they are going to complete a probability and impact matrix chart. You and your team are still in what process group? | Planning
A project risk manager distributes anonymous questionnaires to project team members to help identify risks. This is called  . | The Delphi Technique.
A project manager had scheduled a number of training programs for his team. However, he was aware that apart from planned training, unplanned training also took place in a number of ways. Which of these is not one of the ways in which unplanned training can happen? | Classroom
A new CEO has come into your company and has promptly shut down your project because it no longer met the business needs of the company. While not pleased with the decision, you document the level and completeness of the project to date. What activity or process is this part of? | Close Project or Phase
Which of the following processes will determine the correctness of deliverables? | Control Quality
A team member in your project is constantly providing incomplete deliverables and not performing well. What should you do first? | Discuss the issue with the team member in private
Under which of the following scenarios would you not use a Decision tree? | When the future scenarios are known.
As part of the Develop Team process, the project manager of a project has planned for some Team Building activities. Team Building Activities should take place throughout the project life cycle, but have greater benefit when conducted: | Early in the project life cycle
Jane is the project manager of large project. During the Determine Budget process, she identifies that contingency reserves need to be made for unplanned but potentially required changes that could result from realized risks identified in the risk register. Which of the following is true about reserves? | Management Reserves are not a part of project cost baseline, but will be included in the total budget for the project
Which of the following best describes the Validate Scope process? | Obtaining stakeholders’ formal acceptance of the project deliverables
The key difference between Validate Scope and Control Quality is: | Validate Scope is concerned with the acceptance of deliverables.
You have just returned from the weekly change control board meeting where you presented the requested changes to the employee move project. You had five change requests approved, however one rejected request. These are outputs of what process? | Perform Integrated Change Control
In a Cause and Effect diagram, which of these is not a potential cause? | Problem statement
The project manager in charge of a new credit card software project has asked the product manager to create a checklist to assist with the identification of risks. A risk checklist can be created from which of the following sources? | The lowest level of the Risk Breakdown Structure
Which of the following quality control tools and techniques may not be used for root cause analysis? | Scatter diagram
Which of the following is neither an input to nor an output of the Develop Project Charter process? | Professional and technical associations
You have been asked to establish a project charter for your new project. According to PMBOK, who normally has the responsibility to authorize the charter? | Project initiator or sponsor
Emily’s project is in execution. Emily is currently planning to execute the Manage Stakeholder Engagement process. She has gathered the stakeholder management plan, the recent change log, and the necessary organizational process assets. Which of the following is a key input to this process that is still missing from this list? | Communications management plan
A contract change control system should include: | Paperwork, tracking systems, dispute resolution procedures, and approval levels necessary for authorizing changes
As a project manager based at the customer location for a performing organization, you strike up a rapport with a customer manager. As the project progresses, the manager asks you to make certain changes to the project scope and wants this to be handled on an informal basis. You should: | Explain to the manager that you would need to formally document these as part of project scope change and put it through the change management process.
Variance Analysis is an important tool used in the Control Costs Process. Which of the following statements regarding variances is correct? | The percentage range of acceptable variances will tend to decrease as more work is accomplished
What is the BEST tool and technique that provides the expected cost of a procurement and helps identify significant variations from cost estimates prepared in-house? | Independent estimates
Analyzing the situation, differentiating between wants and needs, and focusing on interests and issues rather than on positions are critical elements in: | Negotiating
Which of the following is not an enterprise environmental factor influencing the Develop Project Management Plan process? | Project Management Plan template
You are reviewing the responses to an RFP issued by your company and realize that a major requirement was not included in the RFP that was released. By chance, however, one of the bidders included that requirement in their response. What is the best course of action? | Revise and reissue the RFP.
Which of the following is not an example of a work performance report? | Project charter
The selection of life cycle for the project, the processes to be applied to each phase, and the results of the tailoring by the project management team are usually found in the: | Project management plan
Which of the following processes produces a work breakdown structure as an output? | Create WBS
Organizational process assets are key inputs to the Manage Stakeholder Engagement process. The key elements of the organizational process assets utilized during this process are organizational communication requirements, issue management procedures and the change control procedures. Which of the following is also a key organizational process asset that must be considered during this process? | Historical information about previous projects
As part of the Risk Response planning for your project, you are trying to come up with a strategy to deal with negative risks or threats. In order to eliminate the impact of a particular risk, you relax the objective that is in jeopardy by extending the project schedule. This is an example of | Avoidance
There is a heavy demand for new houses in your city’s expensive neighborhood. RECON, a construction company employed you as a project manager to assess the benefit of building new energy efficient houses in that neighborhood although it takes more expensive technology to build such houses. You have started gathering data to perform the detail payback analysis to submit a report to the management. Since the full financial impact of energy efficient house building is difficult to estimate, you would like to prepare a rough cost-benefit analysis and include it with the report. Which of the following describes the effort you are undertaking in this scenario? | You are developing a business case to provide as an input to the develop project charter process
If you are writing a proposal for additional funding, which communication style should you choose? | formal and vertical
A summary milestone schedule would normally be part of which document? | Project charter
Your company has just completed an unexpected round of layoffs. Morale is low, and resources are tighter than ever. Your project is now behind schedule because of the loss of resources. Overtime work will be required of everyone for the next several weeks in order to close the gap. One of the critical resources on your project has an upcoming vacation that was approved and scheduled months ago. However, without this resource you will be unable to get back on schedule. What do you do? | Notify the project stakeholders of the situation immediately.
A project manager uses a Power / Interest grid to identify stakeholders in the project and to manage their expectations. Identify which of the following statements is wrong in the context of a Power / Interest grid. | Stakeholders with higher power and higher interest need the least attention.
You find out that a project team member has been stealing some material from the work place. You accidentally discover this and he says that he is very sorry about it, and will not repeat it again. You will: | Inform your HR department about the matter
As part of Define Activities, you are looking at dependencies used to define the sequence among the activities. Which of these is not a valid type of dependency? | Linked dependency
Which of these processes is NOT a Project Schedule Management process? | Create WBS
