What is the free float for Activity C? | 4 days
Your manager has asked you to include the Human Resource Management Plan and the Schedule Management Plan in your Project Management Plan. Is this the appropriate place for these items? | Yes, include them in the Project Management Plan.
In a project that was yet to begin, many of the project team members were known in advance. This is called: | Pre-assignment
You are managing a project to design microprocessor control systems. The design work was estimated to complete in 3.5 months, with seven milestones. The sixth milestone is the prototype to be handed over to manufacturing. All milestones before prototyping have been completed ahead of schedule with 6th one being delayed for 4 months as the prototype has been sent back several times, due to conflicts between departments. You are now planning to hold a meeting to review the design specifications, and handle conflicts between design and manufacturing. Who is at fault? | The project manager.
You are a PMP reviewing project files to help you write a lessons learned document on a software project you are finishing. Which of the following is not a part of a project file? | Project deliverables
Vendor selection and management and documentation of lessons learned are tasks that fall under this process area: | Conduct Procurements
Which process group corresponds to the “act” component of the plan-do-check-act cycle? | Monitoring and Controlling
Which of the following is not a valid instance of Risk Transference? | Use of a Cost Reimbursable contract
You have overheard two functional managers arguing about the impacts that your project will have on their departments. What is your best response? | Analyze and report to each manager the impact your project will have on their departments in terms of time and resources required, and the relative enterprise priority of your project.
What is the shortest time possible to complete this project? (critical path)  | 18 days
Bill is the project manager of a software project that is originally estimated to complete in 12 months. 2 months into the project, it is discovered that the original estimating assumptions were fundamentally flawed. The Estimate at Completion (EAC) in such a project will be: | EAC = AC + Bottom-up ETC
Due to a tight project schedule, a project manager did not document lessons learned all through the project. However, at the end of the project, he finally documented the lessons learned. Your comment on this would be: | This is ok. At a minimum, lessons learned should be documented at the end of the project.
You are managing a highly complex drug manufacturing project and your sponsor is highly motivated and influential. You are optimistic about the outcome of the project, however, you are not sure about the project approval requirements that measure the success of the project. So, you would like to document the name of the person who signs off on the project, and the criteria that constitutes the success of the project. Which of the following documents should you use first to incorporate project approval requirements? | The project charter
While reviewing project procurement and accounting records for your project, you discover that there is a pattern of unauthorized expenses by a specific resource. These expenses are not within the scope of the project, and have been somewhat camouflaged within a number of large and complicated expense reports. What do you do? | Notify the appropriate management immediately.
Which of the following is NOT a valid statement regarding the critical path method? | The resulting late start and finish dates will be the project schedule baseline.
Which of the following is not an example of a work performance report? | Project charter
Your project team works in two different buildings across the city. The team has been struggling to perform effectively and has a difficult time resolving problems. What would be the BEST team development technique to resolve this issue? | Co-location
You have been asked by your project manager to help them create a chart that illustrates the project resources that will be working on each work package. What would be the best type of chart to use? | RACI chart
A project manager is trying to plan for a contingency reserve as part of the cost estimates for the project. Which of these would be an incorrect way to plan for contingency reserves? | Start the project with a zero value for contingency reserve.
The most detailed level of the WBS is called the ____________. | Work package
You are managing an oil drilling project. With oil at $120 per barrel this could be a very lucrative project. However, there is a chance that the price of oil will drop below $80 per barrel, thus eliminating the profit in the project. This is an example of: | Risk
During a weekly status meeting a team member suggests adding a component to the project. As the project manager, you indicate that all focus should be put on the current scope and don’t worry about any enhancements. Focusing on the current scope is an example of? | Scope management
Several of your resources report to another manager. You need them to participate in a series of project meetings over the next two weeks. How should you handle this? | Request in advance resource participation from the other manager and the resources and communicate information about the timing and duration of the project meetings.
A manager asked to see a list of milestones in the project. This would be available as an output from the: | Define Activities phase
Your project is nearing completion, but a previously unidentified risk has been discovered and it could significantly affect one of the project deliverables. What do you do? | Notify the project stakeholders immediately.
A seller organization was executing work for a project under a contract. During the course of the project, a number of disputes arose over the scope and quality of work. Which of the following is the preferred method of resolving these claims? | Negotiation
Which of the following is NOT considered a method in the Manage Communications process? | Change control systems
As an external vendor, you are managing a complex software project that has been contracted on Time & Material (T&M). One of your team-members reports a break-through in automating some of the testing activities. This will potentially result in cost savings to the project as well as the project getting completed ahead of schedule by a month. Which of the following actions would you take? | Communicate the current status to the customer and indicate the potential changes to cost and schedule.
Acceptance is a strategy adopted because it is not possible to eliminate all risks from a project. This strategy indicates that the project management team has decided not to change the project management plan to deal with a risk. What action does passive acceptance require? | Passive acceptance requires no action except to document the strategy, leaving the project team to deal with the risks as they occur.
A key project in an organization has been ignored due to high travel expenses associated with the movement of subject matter experts and other specialists across various project locations. Which of the following will permit such a project to be taken up in a cost-efficient manner? | Virtual teams
Bottom-up Cost estimating is typically motivated by the size and complexity of: | The individual schedule activity or work package
If you are developing a Project Management Plan, how should you determine the level of detail to be included in the plan? | Provide the level of detail based on the project complexity and application area
 __________ is performed on risks that have been prioritized by the Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis process as potentially and substantially impacting the project. | Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis
Stakeholder analysis is an important technique in the Identify Stakeholders process. One of the steps involved is to identify the potential impact of each stakeholder and classify them appropriately. Which of the following is not a valid model used for this purpose? | Tolerance model
You are the project manager for a project and have just entered the third year of a scheduled four year project. You need to evaluate new risks that have emerged since the project began. What should you perform to provide this information? | Risk re-assessment
Given multiple alternatives, the group decision method that allows the largest block in a group to decide (even if more than 50% of the members of the group do not support the decision) is called: | Plurality
You are managing a project to design microprocessor control systems. The design work was estimated to complete in 3.5 months, with seven milestones. The sixth milestone is the prototype to be handed over to manufacturing. All milestones before prototyping have been completed ahead of schedule with 6th one being delayed for 4 months as the prototype has been sent back several times, due to conflicts between departments. You are now planning to hold a meeting to review the design specifications, and handle conflicts between design and manufacturing. Who is at fault? | The project manager.
Which option is NOT representative of the inputs, tools and techniques, and outputs of the Direct and Manage Project Work process? | Approved Change Requests, Validated Changes, and PMIS
A project manager estimated that a project would require 4375 person hours of effort. The project ended up using 6250 person hours of effort. The difference between these two figures is called a: | Variance
How will an organization with a weak matrix organization structure affect the Plan Resource Management process? | The project manager will have a relatively weaker role.
Emily is engaged in the construction of three unique office buildings. Although construction sites are located in various places, she has been managing each team very efficiently to complete the work on time and within the budget. Which of the following statements describe the effort that Emily is doing? | Construction of each building is a project because each building is unique in nature
The project management team expects that during the course of the project, there could be delays in component delivery due to strikes, changes to the permitting processes or extensions of specific engineering durations. What analysis will help come up with contingency and response plans to mitigate these? | What-If scenario analysis.
A project team is participating in a brainstorming meeting for a project. The project is in the planning phase. The team is trying to determine the current and preferred project stakeholder engagement levels and analyzing the gaps between these two states. They are also discussing different approaches and strategies that can be adopted to close these gaps. This relates to which of the following processes? | Plan stakeholder engagement
While the five process groups are typically completed in order, they often overlap with each other throughout the project. Which two process groups do not overlap unless a project is canceled? | Initiating and Closing
Gary is a project manager wrapping up the construction of a new office building. He creates several documents during this process. Which of the following is not applicable to the Control Procurements process? | Project charter
All of the following are characteristics of a project, EXCEPT: | Ongoing Effort
You are the Project Manager for KT’s Lumber Yard. You are trying to forecast estimates for the last phase of the project you are currently working on. Based on the performance of the project to date, which formula can be used to estimate the total value of the project when completed assuming similar variances will not occur? | EAC = AC + BAC – EV
Project costs are estimated for all project activities and aggregated to establish a cost baseline. Which of the following statements about the cost baseline is NOT true? | The cost baseline includes all authorized budgets including management reserves
The costs on a project are typically classified as direct and indirect costs. The cost of electric utilities for the office would be considered as: | An indirect cost
The requirements elicitation team has obtained a large number of ideas during sessions to gather product and project requirements. Which of the following techniques is best suited to have these ideas sorted into groups for review and analysis? | Affinity diagram
Which of these precedence relationships is least commonly used in Precedence Diagramming Method? | Start to Finish
A software vendor on your project is hoping to be awarded a contract providing software for another project at your company. You are not the manager of the other project. However, the vendor offers you tickets to an upcoming professional sports event if you will “put in a good word” for his company to vendor selection team of the other project. What do you do? | Decline the tickets and notify appropriate management of the situation.
Terry is managing a healthcare software development project using state-of-the-art technology. Stakeholder management is very crucial for the success of this project. The stakeholder involvement and influence is significant on this project. During which of following project stages, stakeholder management will be the most challenging task for Terry? | Early during the project execution
All of the following are tools of the Control Schedule process EXCEPT: | Parametric estimating
You are planning out the communications methods to use as part of stakeholder engagement. The most effective means for communicating and resolving issues with stakeholders is: | Face-to-face meetings
Sometimes the broader, more comprehensive summary activity is also referred to as: | Hammock Activity
How can changes be made to a project management plan once it has been baselined by the project manager? | By generating a change request and having it approved through the Perform Integrated Change Control process.
Which strategy attempts to reduce the probability and/or the impact of a risk to the point where the risk can be accepted? | Mitigation
Collect Requirements, Develop Schedule and Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis are all part of what process group? | Planning
John has just been assigned as the project manager of a project to develop a complex product. The project is in the Define Scope phase. Which of these tools / techniques will not be used by John in this phase? | Process analysis
The Project Managers have maximum authority in which type of organization? | Strong Matrix
Which of the following enterprise environmental factors is not applicable to the Plan Resource Management process? | Lessons learned
While developing the project schedule, you find that the completion of a successor activity depends on the completion of its predecessor activity. What is this dependency called? | Finish-to-Finish
Risk identification checklists are usually developed based on historical information and knowledge accumulated from previous similar projects. Which of the following statements about risk identification checklists is wrong? | The lowest level of the Risk Breakdown Structure (RBS) cannot be used as a risk checklist
A large network hardware upgrade project was scheduled to take place over a weekend. During the course of the implementation, several previously unidentified dependencies for additional materials were discovered. The project manager gave approval for the tech staff doing the implementation procure with corporate credit cards several hundred dollars worth of additional equipment required to complete the implementation. However these additional expenses caused the project to exceed its budget. How should the project manager handle this? | Notify the project stakeholders immediately of the additional expenses incurred and follow project and or company procedures for budget variances.
Your company has temporarily assigned you to serve as a project manager at a company location outside your home country. While meeting with a vendor your first day on the job, you are presented with a gift. The corporate policy at the headquarters in your home country prohibits employees from accepting these types of gifts. However, as you are new to this location, you believe- but are not sure-that the local policy, as well as local custom may differ. How should you respond? | Respectfully tell the vendor you are not sure of corporate policy, and will need to ask your management before you can accept gifts of any size.
A Project manager estimates the work to be accomplished in the near term in detail, at a low level of the Work Breakdown structure (WBS); while he estimates work far in the future as WBS components, that are at a relatively high level of the WBS. What is this technique called? | Rolling wave planning
The Manage Team process is part of what process group? | Executing
What is the traditional way to display a reporting structure among project team members? | Hierarchical-type charts
As part of the Define Scope process, a project manager documented the specific project assumptions associated with the project scope in the project scope statement. While reviewing this document, an experienced project manager pointed out that the project manager should also document: | The potential impact of the assumptions if they proved to be false.
You are in the Validate Scope process of your electronic goods manufacturing project. While reviewing some products, you have noticed that the tolerance for one product is 0.01% less than what was listed in the requirements documentation. This deviation may not be a problem for the customers and it may not negatively impact the operations. What is your best immediate action in such a situation? | Notify the customers about thedeviation
What is the MAIN reason for controlling the project scope? | Preventing scope creep.
A project is contracted as a Time & Material (T&M) type of contract. The service provider initially estimates that the total effort involved would be about 1000 hours of effort. The project is contracted at a rate of US$ 75 per hour of effort. If the project ended up with 1200 hours of effort, what would the contract payout be. |  US$ 90,000
You have identified a risk that will negatively affect your security project. You and your team have decided to use an older encryption technology because of the high risk associated with the new technology. What type of risk strategy are you using? | Avoidance
The project management team performed activities such as measuring examining and verifying to determine whether work and deliverables met requirements and product acceptance criteria. Which of the following choices refers to a different set of activities than the ones just mentioned? | Prevention
Perform Integrated Change Control includes several configuration management activities. Which of the following is not part of Perform Integrated Change Control? | Change request
A project manager needed to shorten a project schedule. He decided to apply crashing, a schedule compression technique. Which of the following activities would not be an example of crashing? | Reducing project scope
A project to construct a high-rise building is progressing very well. Stakeholders are proactive in identifying issues related to the quality of the structure, walls and floors. As a project manager, you are conducting meetings to clarify or resolve their issues. Although, you are committed to manage stakeholders concerns, you learned that some critical issues need to be deferred to the next phase of the project for resolution. What should you do in this situation? | You must work with stakeholders to defer those issues
On a control chart, if six consecutive plot points are above the mean, then what can be established about the process? | Nothing can be established
During the Plan Risk Management process, assigning ___________ will help you and the project team identify all important risks and work more effectively during the identification process. | risk categories
Which of the following is an output of the Create WBS process? | Scope baseline
Which of the following is a hierarchical representation of project risks? | Risk Breakdown Structure
A project can be authorized by any of the following except: | The project manager
Which term best describes the Identify Risks process? | Iterative
Sally’s project has got a huge number of key positive and negative stakeholders. It is very important to closely manage the influential negative stakeholders to ensure project’s success. Do the key positive stakeholders need to be managed as well? | The positive stakeholders need to be closely managed as well since stakeholders’ needs and expectations change over time.
You have recently joined the a new company as a project manager. While reviewing the procurement plans for a project you will be taking over, you see that the company is considering using one of the most expensive manufacturers to provide certain equipment required for the project. While working with your previous employer, you used a different supplier for the same equipment, and paid significantly less for the equipment. Without telling your boss, you call the supplier you worked with previously for a quote. Have you violated the rule of keeping the proprietary information confidential? | You have not violated any rule.
For any complex project, once the project stakeholders are identified, the next step is to classify these stakeholders based on their current and desired engagement levels. What is the benefit of classifying the project stakeholders? | To help define an approach strategy
In a small office construction project, the following activities are scheduled in sequence. What is the minimum time to complete the project if all activities are on a critical path except number viii, and activity iii is delayed by 1 day? | 34 days
A complicated software project was authorized by a project sponsor. However, the users who were intended to use the product found it very difficult to articulate their requirements. What technique can be employed to elicit requirements for such a project? | Job shadowing
A fellow project manager is retiring and moving to the mountains, you will be taking over his project. Before he leaves he tells you the project is on schedule, but only because he has had to “put the hammer down” on his project team and push them relentlessly. Pushing the team to perform activities to accomplish project objectives is a part of: | Direct and Manage Project Work
As part of EVM, a project manager is calculating the to-complete performance index (TCPI) based on EAC. The data that he has is: the budget at completion for the project is $ 100,000, the earned value for the project is $ 25,000, the actual costs to date are 40,000 and the estimate at completion is $ 115,000. What is the TCPI that he will obtain? | 1
A project manager used a control chart to determine whether a process was stable or not, and to determine if its performance was predictable. He determined the upper and lower specification limits based on the contractual requirements. A set of eighteen data points were taken. Of these, 8 consecutive data points were above the mean. What can you say about such a process? | A process is considered as out of control if seven consecutive data points are above or below the mean. Hence the process is out of control.
As an experienced PMP, you have found that running a WBS meeting is tricky because you need to find a balance between decomposition and excessive decomposition. When items are excessively decomposed it leads all of the following, EXCEPT: | It breaks the 100% rule.
A project manager determines that there are 15 communication channels in the project. The number of stakeholders in the project must then be: | 6 stakeholders
A key project in an organization has been ignored due to high travel expenses associated with the movement of subject matter experts and other specialists across various project locations. Which of the following will permit such a project to be taken up in a cost-efficient manner? | Virtual teams
Two of your team members played the Mega Millions lottery and won! As much as they like working on your team, they have decided to retire. What plan should be updated? | Staffing Management Plan
A team of engineers is reviewing a scatter diagram to determine how the changes in two variables in a new type of automobile tire are related. The closer points on the diagram are to a diagonal line, ______________ . | the more closely they are related
Jane has recently finalized her project management plan and has also got it approved. She is managing a complex manufacturing process improvement project. The project stakeholders’ continuous support and commitment is an absolute must for the success of the project. Which of the following are the most crucial stakeholder management processes at this stage? | Manage Stakeholder Engagement and Monitor Stakeholder Engagement
Select the best answer: Continuous process improvement reduces ___________ and ___________ , which allows processes to operate at increased levels of efficiency and effectiveness. | Waste and non-value added activities.
A project is contracted as a Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee (CPFF) type of contract with a fee of 10% of estimated costs. The estimated cost is US$ 50,000. If the project comes in at US$ 75,000 with no changes in project scope, what would be the total cost of the contract? |  US$ 80,000
Your project team members have just started to work together and are now adjusting their work habits and behaviors to support each other. Which stage of the Tuckman ladder has your team just entered? | Norming
What is the free float for Activity C? | 6 days
In order to keep costs low, a project management team decided to apply statistical sampling while inspecting some of the work products. They decided to select 10 out of 50 engineering drawings for inspection. During which process should the sample frequency and sample size be determined? | Plan Quality Management
Where would you find a detailed list and description of specific project assumptions associated with the project? | Project scope statement
Which of the following is not an activity related to the Direct and Manage Project Work process? | Inspect the project deliverables for completeness.
Your project sponsor has asked you to add 30% contingency to your project budget as a hedge against any unforeseen costs that could exceed the currently forecasted expenses, but has not provided any additional detail about why this is required. What do you do? | Ask the sponsor to elaborate the risks that are behind the request.
You are on the vendor selection committee for a large IT project that you will be managing for your company. Your friend works for a company that is planning to bid on the project. During a social dinner, the friend tells his job is on the line if his company does not win the contract. What should you do? | Notify the project stakeholders that you have social ties with one of the vendors, and excuse yourself from the selection committee.
A technique which enhances brainstorming with a voting process used to rank the most useful ideas so that they can be taken up for further brainstorming is: | Nominal group technique
Your project is nearing completion, but a previously unidentified risk has been discovered and it could significantly affect one of the project deliverables. What do you do? | Notify the project stakeholders immediately.
At the end of a project, what will your schedule variance be equal to? | Zero
As part of the Estimate Costs process, a project manager obtained access to certain commercially available databases to get resource cost rate information. What type of input is such published commercial information considered as? | Enterprise environmental factor
Sam, a senior project manager, is using a lessons learned knowledge management system to document the findings in a precision instrument manufacturing project. He is using the information from his team which has identified causes of product quality variance using a control chart and the details regarding corrective actions chosen to reduce the variance and improve the product quality. Which of the following should Sam use to add this information to the lessons learned? | Organizational process assets in the quality control process
Which statement is NOT true about the configuration management system? | The configuration management system doesn’t include change tracking system.
What is the critical path for this project? | 21 days
Jane is a project manager managing a global project. She has stakeholders located in various parts of the globe. Due to the nature of the project, she also has large volumes of information that needs to be shared with the recipients. What type of communication method should she prefer for this purpose? | Pull communication
What is the best way to show, at a glance, all the work packages or project activities assigned to a specific organizational department? | Organizational Breakdown Structure
A project can be authorized by any of the following except: | The project manager
A project manager is just finishing a project that has not gone well. Apart from cost overruns and schedule overruns, there have been a lot of quality defects and the project required a lot of senior management intervention to finally reach completion. The project manager should now: | Document lessons learned from the project and update the lessons learned knowledge database.
Due to the unexpected release of a similar product from a competitor, the Widgets International executive team has stepped up the pressure on the product team to release the Widget product 3 months earlier. The project manager uses what technique to shorten the schedule but maintain the project scope? | Schedule compression
Organizational process assets are an input to all of the following Stakeholder Management processes EXCEPT: | Monitor Stakeholder Engagement
Project performance appraisals are different from team performance assessment in that project performance appraisals focus on? | How each team member is performing on the project
Which of the following is an output of the Define Activity process? | Milestone list
You are the Project Manager for a large petroleum company and are in the process of writing the project charter for your sponsor. You have used the following as inputs except: | Work breakdown structure (WBS)
A point in time that a project or project phase is authorized to its completion is called: | Project boundary
A project manager would like to resolve conflicts with a give-and-take attitude rather than using a one-sided approach. Which of these approaches is he likely to use? | Problem-solving
Large variations in the periodic expenditure of funds are undesirable for organizational operations. Therefore the expenditure of funds is frequently reconciled with the disbursement of funds for the project. According to the PMBOK, this is known as: | Funding Limit Reconciliation
As part of risk planning, some responses are designed for use only if certain events occur. A project manager of a multi-year project decided to trigger one such set of responses during the Monitor Risks process. Which of the following is likely to have triggered the responses? | Missing an intermediate milestone
Emily is managing a process improvement project. She is currently identifying her project stakeholders and populating the stakeholder register. The project sponsor has asked Emily to use the project’s procurement documents as an input to this process as well. What could be the reason behind this request? | The customer of this project is an external party and this project is based on an established contract.
A buyer and seller fixed up the rates for junior engineers, senior engineers, architects, and other predefined roles. In what type of a contract would this be applicable? | Time and material contract
You have just taken over a project from another project manager about 6 months into a 12-month project. As you get to know the staff on the project, you become aware that 5 staff members are relatives of the previous project manager. What do you do? | Notify your project stakeholders there is a possibility that nepotism was behind some of the staffing decisions made on your project.
RACI stands for __________ ,  __________,  __________,  __________. | Responsible, Accountable, Consult, Inform
A project was estimated to cost $ 200,000 with a timeline of 10 months. Due to a shipment delay, the schedule was slightly delayed. This was however made up by receiving the first batch of materials for the project by air. The net result was that there was some additional cost in the project. At the end of the second month, the Project Manager reviews the project and finds that the project is 20% complete and Actual Costs are $ 50,000. The Estimate to complete (ETC) for the project would now be: | $160,000
The cost of running a project management office is an example of what type of cost? | Indirect
All of the following are components of an effective change control, EXCEPT: | Variance analysis
A project manager was involved in preparation of the project charter for an external project. One of the inputs to the project charter was a statement of work (SOW). The SOW may have been received from the customer as part of all of the following except: | As part of the business case
A seller organization was executing work for a project under a contract. During the course of the project, a number of disputes arose over the scope and quality of work. Which of the following is the preferred method of resolving these claims? | Negotiation
John is managing a simple construction project. For this project, the stakeholder register exists, but the stakeholder engagement plan was not developed during the planning phase of the project. During the project execution, a big number of change requests came in and got approved. John now believes that a formal stakeholder engagement plan should be in place in order to guarantee the project’s success. What must John do? | Go ahead and develop the project’s stakeholder engagement plan.
You have just learned that your project’s sole equipment supplier has gone out of business. This is an unanticipated risk, and will cause a delay in the project until a new vendor can be selected and contracts put in place. What do you do? | Notify the project stakeholders.
A project manager is giving a project update to the key stakeholders. During the meeting, he finds out that most of the stakeholders are busy checking and replying to their emails. Which of the following is the best action that could have eliminated this issue? | A meeting ground rule on active listening
Which of the following statements about project teams is incorrect? | The project management team is usually a team external to the project team.
Your company is way behind schedule in the deployment of a government mandated change to a health care processing system that must be in production by the end of the year. You and your team have met and decided to hire an additional 50 programmers to work with the existing staff on the activities in order to meet the due date. This is an example of what? | Crashing
The Direct and Manage Project Work process has three tools and techniques. Two of them are Expert Judgment and Meetings. What is the third one? | Project Management Information System
Andrew is managing a construction project. He is using his communication, interpersonal and management skills to keep the key project stakeholders engaged with the project. Which of the following activities is not related to the Manage Stakeholder Engagement process? | Adjusting the stakeholder management strategy
If you want to compress a project schedule, what are two of the recommended alternatives to consider? | Crashing and Fast Tracking
The change requests created as an output of the Monitor and Control Project Work process may be attributed to all of the following except: | Project status update
A change request has just been formally documented and approved by the Change Control Board. The project manager now needs to communicate this to a project team member. Which of the following activities must the project manager necessarily do? | Issue a formal communication document informing the team member about the changes.
As part of the procurement process, the procuring organization elected to have an estimate of costs prepared by an outside professional estimator. The estimator came up with an estimate of $ 500,000. However, the cost estimates prepared by prospective sellers were in the range of $ 200,000. How can this be best interpreted? | The procurement statement of work was deficient and ambiguous.
The Actual Cost (AC) is the total cost actually incurred and recorded in accomplishing work performed for an activity or work breakdown structure component. What is the upper limit for the AC? | There is no upper limit for the Actual Cost (AC).
A project manager is confused about the perspective of the buyer-seller relationship in the context of project procurement management. How would your clarify this? | The buyer-seller relationship can exist at many levels on one project, and between organizations internal to and external to the acquiring organization.
It was found that there were a large number of hidden requirements to be uncovered in the Collect Requirements phase. Which of the following tools should a project manager use to identify them? | Participant observer
When a negative unidentified risk occurs in a project, a response to it would be called: | A workaround
What type of method can be used to eliminate personal bias during the process of selecting a seller? | Source Selection Criteria
A senior project manager advises a first-time project manager that identifying risks is just one step. On a continuous basis, new risks need to be identified, and existing risks need to be analyzed, tracked and their status reported. All this is done as part of what process? | Monitor and Control Project Work
A risk with a positive outcome is called an _____________ . | Opportunity
You are the Project Manager for GeoThermal Systems. Which of the following must be done FIRST before proceeding with a new project? | Obtain Project Charter approval
John is a project manager in an organization and conducts a workshop on project management. Which of the following statements made by him about projects is incorrect? | Projects exist within an organization and operate as a closed system.
Which of the following does not motivate an individual? | Micro-management
Jane is an experienced project manager working on a pharmaceutical project. This project involves two big vendors to supply chemical products with specific composition for preparing drugs. While reviewing documents to see how the seller is performing, she noticed that some of the contractual terms were not met by the sellers. Since it is first time violation, she would like to initiate a corrective action to bring the performance of the seller consistent with the statement of work. Which of the following are NOT outputs of Jane’s effort? | Work performance data and approved change requests
Alex is managing a hotel refurbishment project. He has identified his project’s key stakeholders. Alex now wants to expand this list of stakeholders and convert it to a comprehensive list of project stakeholders. What should Alex do? | Seek expert judgment from the identified key stakeholders
A project manager colleague of yours is currently working under contract on a short term project. He has expressed some concerns about finding work after the project ends. The project he is working on is currently ahead of schedule and he expects they will finish a month sooner than initially expected. What advice would be appropriate to provide him? | Continue the work within the project’s scope and possibly finish ahead of schedule.
A decision tree is a Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis technique that is structured around using a Decision Tree Diagram. It describes a situation under consideration and the implications of each of the available choices and the possible scenarios. A Decision Tree Diagram shows how to make a decision between alternative capital strategies known as: | Decision nodes
Emily is a project manager managing a town-development project. Emily has set up a series of interviews with various stakeholders to gather some experiential and historical information on risks. Which phase is this likely to happen in? | Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis
Which of the following Manage Quality techniques relates to root cause analysis and is used to identify a problem, discover the underlying causes, and develop preventive actions? | Process Analysis
While managing a large project, the project manager decided to include indirect costs as part of his cost estimate. If indirect costs are included in an estimate which of the following is true? | Indirect costs should be included at the activity level or higher levels.
You have been managing a National freeway construction project which is intended to improve the transportation between east and west regions of a country. Being in the execution phase, the change control board has approved many change requests generated from stakeholders including the freeway transportation agency. At least half of those requests were made to bring the quality of the micro texture of the road aligned with the quality levels incorporated in the project management plan. What is the next course of action for you going forward? | Initiate a preventive action to reduce the probability of negative consequences associated with the poor quality of the road
You have taken over the management of a project from another project manager, who is a certified PMP. This project has been completed and is in the process of closing. You discover that there is no project schedule. What do you do? | Notify the appropriate management immediately.
Which of the following roles in a project is more likely to be involved in negotiations on procurements during the Conduct Procurements phase? | Procurement administrator
Which of the following is not an example of a procurement document? | Risk Register
Which of the following methods of forecasting EAC and ETC is the most accurate? | ETC based on new estimate
Peter, a project manager, is updating the status of his project. Based on the performance indices, he expects the project to finish a month earlier than the planned finish date. However, he expects the project to exceed the budgeted costs. What can you say about the schedule performance index (SPI) of the project? | The SPI is greater than 1.0.
The key components of the basic model of communication between two parties are: | Encode, message, medium, noise, decode
You are a Project Manager and are nearing the end of your project. You are now required to provide lessons learned documentation on the project. What is the MAIN purpose for preparing lessons learned documentation? | To identify improvements for managing similar future projects
Which of the following is not a tool or technique of the Manage Stakeholder Engagement process? | Technical skills
Which of the following is the correct logical sequence of the five process groups? | Initiating, Planning, Executing, Monitoring and Controlling, Closing
Your Vice President has asked you what the Estimate at Completion is going to be for a small project you are working on. You were given a budget of $30,000, and to date you have spent $20,000 but only completed $10,000 worth of work. You are sure that the future work will be accomplished at the planned rate. | $40,000
Jane, the project manager of a large project, found that she did not have the necessary number of resources required for some activities in the project. To account for the limited resources, she decided to apply the critical chain method. Which of the following would she use to protect the critical chain from slippage along the feeding chains? | Feeding buffers
Jen is the project manager at a pharmaceutical company. She begins her day by analyzing her team’s work requirements. She then assigns daily tasks to her team members over a centralized project management information system that then generates automatic task assignment notifications for the team members. Which of the following types of communication methods has been selected by Jen? | Informal, push communication
Stakeholder identification is a continuous process. Which of the following statements about stakeholders is incorrect? | A project manager needs to focus on the positive stakeholders since their needs are best served by the project
Which of the following indicates the required cost performance in order to completed the project on budget? | TCPI
Which of the following structures is helpful in tracking project costs and can be aligned with the organization’s accounting system? | Work Breakdown Structure (WBS)
The project sponsor asks you to increase budget estimates by 25% to ensure that enough funds are budgeted for the project. What should you do? | Ask for additional information
During a weekly status meeting a team member suggests adding a component to the project. As the project manager, you indicate that all focus should be put on the current scope and don’t worry about any enhancements. Focusing on the current scope is an example of? | Scope management
During the execution of a project, a large number of defects were discovered. The project manager ensured that the issues, defect resolution and action item results were logged into a defects database. What would the defect database be considered a part of? | Organizational Process Assets
All of the following are interpersonal skills EXCEPT: | Resisting to change
You are working as a project manager for a high yield crop development project. Data from the weather agency shows an unfavorable weather pattern for next few months. As a senior project manager, you want to assess the feasibility of the schedule under adverse conditions and provide some insights to your team. This way, your team can prepare some reserves and plan risk responses if unfavorable conditions exist during execution. Which of the following techniques should you use to assess the feasibility of the schedule? | Monte Carlo analysis
The project manager of a large construction project is responsible for ensuring that all changes to the building plans are approved and tracked before they are implemented. These activities form part of which process? | Perform Integrated change control
Sally is managing a project in a Functional organization. In this organization, she can expect to find that: | Management systems are not designed to support project needs efficiently, and project management is difficult.
You are just about to present your project’s status to your company’s executive team. One of your resources hands you an updated report on the progress of a critical deliverable as you are leaving your desk for the meeting. You review the report as you are walking to the conference room and notice that there is an error in the report. What do you do? | Disclose that you have just discovered that there is an error in some of the information that you had intended to present, and only present the information that you know to be true.
Which of the following is not a tool and technique of the Collect Requirements process? | Traceability matrix
A project has several teams. Team A has repeatedly missed deadlines in the past. This has caused team D to have to crash the critical path several times. As the team leader for team D, you receive word that the next deadline may also be missed. You should meet with the: | Project Manager and the leader of team A
Emily is about to review her project stakeholder engagement plan to make some necessary adjustments. She has got her project management plan, the recent issue log and the work performance data. Which of the following inputs is still missing for this process? | Project documents
When does the Close Project or Phase process need to be performed in case of multi-phased projects? | The Close Project or Phase process needs to be performed at the end of each phase of the project and involves closing out the portion of project scope applicable to that phase.
A research project needed to be carried out under largely undefined, uncertain and rapidly changing environmental conditions. If this project is carried out as a multi-phase project, which of the following phase-to-phase relationships best suits it? | Iterative relationship
You are in the execution stage of your project and you have been informed that “corporate” will be sending in a team of consultants to review whether your project activities comply with company’s and PMI’s policies, standards and procedures. This is an example of? | Quality Audit
John’s project is in execution. During the monitoring and controlling of the project, John finds out that the current stakeholder engagement strategy needs to be thoroughly reviewed. He invites selected key stakeholders and some subject matter experts to brainstorm on new ideas and approaches that can be used. John is planning to facilitate the session himself. The planed session in this scenario is an example of? | Expert judgment obtained through a focus group
A project team is currently assessing the project stakeholder management plan for its validity. The project documents are essential inputs to this process. Which of the following project documents must be used by the project team during this process? | All project documents prepared during the project so far.
Debbie, an IT project manager, is in the planning phase of a shopping website development project. A junior project manager, who has been working under her authority, started developing procedures to indicate how the integrity of cost and schedule performance baselines should be maintained in the project. Where should the junior project manager store these procedures? | In the project management plan
You are a Project Manager creating the final project file. Which information would you NOT include in this file? | Lessons learned from previous similar projects
Emily has recently been asked to manage the deployment of an enterprise resource planning system for her organization. Emily has sent her project sponsor a meeting request to discuss her project’s stakeholder management plan. The sponsor believes that the stakeholder management planning is not relevant for such internal projects. The sponsor believes that only the scope, schedule and cost management plans are sufficient for such projects. The sponsor has asked Emily to describe the objective of the meeting. Which of the following is the best response to this question? | The objective of the meeting is to develop strategies to effectively keep the project stakeholder engaged and committed to the project.
You are an inexperienced project manager who has been appointed to manage a project in a matrix organization. Because of this you can expect the communication in this project to be: | Complex
A project manager presented Earned value analysis data in a tabular format while providing a performance report. An alternative way in which the project manager could have presented the Earned value analysis data is by using: | An S-curve
Creating a sense of community is a benefit of what type of strategy? | Co-location
Which of these precedence relationships is most commonly used in Precedence Diagramming Method? | Finish to Start
Your project schedule shows a 15 month finish, but your customer has just realized there is a regulatory requirement to complete the project by a certain date and insists this project must be finished in 12 months. Which of the following is the best approach? | Inform the customer of the impacts, then crash the project.
Which of the following documents the formal or informal assessments of the project team’s effectiveness? | Team Performance Assessments
Emily is the project manager of a project that has a timeline of 18 months. Emily has planned for daily status reports to be sent out to all stakeholders. After receiving two such reports, the project sponsor informs Emily that she would only like to have fortnightly reports. Emily had done an analysis of communications requirements and considered various attributes for the communications management plan. What aspect has she missed out, which resulted in a daily status report being sent out instead of fortnightly status reports? | She has not considered the frequency of information distribution.
Project stakeholders are individuals and organizations that are actively involved in the project or have an interest in it. Which of the following is not a stakeholder? | Competitor
The Identify Stakeholders process is an initiating process. At this stage, which of the following organizational process assets is the most crucial input to this process? | Lessons learned from previous projects.
Jane is working for a chemical industry and her management proposed two different projects to manufacture Benzene for commercial use. After doing financial analysis, the financial advisor provided her the following statistics about the projects.
Project-1: 60% probability of success with a profit of $500,000 and 20% probability of failure with a loss of $200,000;
Project-2: 30% probability of success with a profit of $300,000 and 30% probability of failure with a loss of $400,000;  | Project-1
Why is it important to have a staff release plan for people within the project team? | The project saves money by releasing people from the project at the right time and morale is also improved.
You took over a project from an individual who was let go. You are reading the project documentation and found the project charter was signed by five managers. What should be your primary concern at this time? | Getting a single sponsor
Your company will receive a large bonus payment for completing a customer’s project by a certain date. However, as the project manager, you know the project will complete approximately 2 weeks after that date as it is currently scheduled. Your manager is insisting that you to do whatever it takes to finish the project by that date, even if it means “cutting corners here and there.” What do you do? | Explain to both your manager and the project stakeholders the impact that this schedule change could have on the project.
You are involved as project manager in a fairly large-sized project. You are in the process of making a procurement decision and plan to go with a simple purchase order. However, you are doubtful whether this is the correct thing to do and decide to find out more details about the process to be followed. Based on your findings, which of the following would be correct? | You would need to verify the policy constraints that form part of the Organizational process assets. Many organizations have policies that constrain procurement decisions and require use of a longer form of contract for projects above a certain value.
Which of the following is not true about the WBS? | WBS should focus on activities rather than deliverables
What do buyers and seller have in common with regards to Control Procurements? | Each party ensures that both it and the other party meet their contractual obligations and that their own legal rights are protected.
A first-time project manager was assigned to a project that had a duration of 3 months. In order to gain a head start in the project, she took an older, completed project and incorporated all the tools, techniques and checklists from that project in their entirety into the current one. The older project had been completed in 14 months’ time and was very similar in nature. The most appropriate comment on this would be: | This may be unnecessary. The project management team needs to decide what is appropriate for the project.
A project manager manages a distributed team with team members located in five countries. Due to time-zone differences, he is unable to find a time that is acceptable to all team members. Which conflict resolution technique is best suited for this situation? | Compromise
You are working on a data center migration project and will be moving a mainframe system to another data center. However, you can’t have any downtime when performing the move. The subject matter experts have various ideas regarding how this daunting task can be done, but the group is not coming to a consensus. You have decided that you will send out a questionnaire to the subject matter experts to get their views and risks on the project. You will then summarize the risks and approaches, and recirculate it to the subject matter experts. You are hoping to reach consensus after several rounds of this. What type of tool is being used? | Delphi Technique
A project manager wants to understand a project goal in relation to the steps for getting to that goal. Which of the following is a useful method for contingency planning that aids a team in anticipating intermediate steps that could derail achievement of a project goal? | Process decision program charts (PDPC)
____________ is performed on risks that have been prioritized by the Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis process as potentially and substantially impacting the project. | Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis
You are attempting to estimate the resources required to put the server racks together in the new data center you are building. It has occurred to you that you may be able to compress the schedule if you look at using power tools vs. hand tools to build the racks and use individuals who have worked on this brand of rack in the past. This is an example of what type of resource estimating tool? | Alternative Analysis
A seller entered into contract with a buyer. At the end of the project, the seller was reimbursed for the cost of the project, but received a very low fee based on certain subjective criteria that had been laid down in the contract. What type of contract is this likely to be? | Cost Plus Award Fee (CPAF) contract
A project manager has decided to use a decision tree to make a build or upgrade analysis. The build requires an investment of $ 200 M (where M represents million). On the build decision branch, there is a 60% probability of strong demand (yielding a revenue of $ 400 M) and a 40% probability of weak demand (yielding a revenue of $150 M). What is the expected monetary value (EMV) of the build? | $ 100 M
All of the monitoring and control processes and many of the executing processes produce change requests as an output. Change requests include corrective action and preventive action. Which of the following are normally affected by corrective and preventive actions? | The performance against baselines
A good quality audit should be: | structured and independent
While going through a list of candidates to be hired for your project, you find that your cousin is one the 3 short listed candidates. You know that she was desperately looking for job. After reviewing these resumes, you’ll be sending them to the electronics engineer for a technical interview. Having a first look at the 3 short listed resumes, you realize that they have similar qualifications and experiences. What should you do? | Forward all three resumes.
Which of the following activities fall under the planning process group but not under the Project Schedule Management? | Developing a detailed description of the project and product being developed
Decision making is an important skill a project manager must possess to manage and lead the team. Which of the following is NOT a part of the six- phase decision-making model? | Problem solution escalation
What does it mean if the Earned Value is equal to Actual Cost? | There is no cost variance
As part of the Control Procurements process, the project manager prepared a complete set of indexed contract documentation, including the closed contract, to include with the final project files. This is called a: | Procurement file
You are working as a project manager for a wind-powered vehicle manufacturing project, which is in its planning phase. You carefully gathered all your requirements from your key stakeholders and prepared a system requirements specification and project requirements specification documents. While presenting your documents to the project team, a project team member who is very enthusiastic about the project started talking about the duration estimates for each activity. Which of the following statements indicate your response to your team member? | Scope definition, WBS creation, Activity definition, and Activity sequencing must be done before estimating durations
A project team is trying to solve a moderately complex problem. The have generated data using affinity diagrams. That data possess intertwined logical relationships. Which of the following tool can help the team analyze these intertwined relationships? | Interrelationship digraph
You are a Project Manager for a company that has a composite organization structure. The current project you are managing is coming to an end. There are a number of activities that need to be completed including releasing project resources. All of the following statements are examples or true statements related to releasing project resources in this company EXCEPT? | Transferring the documented lessons learned into the lessons learned database
A project uses rounding of activity estimates data to the nearest $100, uses staff hours as the unit of measure for resources, and has a variance threshold of 10% deviation from the baseline plan. These would be typically documented in the: | Cost management plan
Emily has recently taken over a project as the project manager. The project is early in the executing phase. Although, the project scope statement was signed off by all key stakeholders, Emily finds out that some of the key stakeholders do not fully understand the project scope. Stakeholders’ continuous support is very critical for the success of the project. What must Emily do? | Conduct one-to-one meeting sessions with these key stakeholders to ensure that they understand the project scope.
During the Conduct Procurements process, the procuring organization found that there were significant differences in the pricing by different sellers. What is the best course of action in such a scenario? | Investigate whether the project statement of work was defective or ambiguous.
You have been assigned as the project manager for a software development project. You are currently communicating with stakeholders and addressing their issues and expectations. Which of the following documents help carrying out this effort? | The stakeholder management plan, communications management plan, and the change log
Peter’s project is in execution. Peter has a monthly stakeholder update meeting set up where he presents the project’s progress and current issues to the key stakeholders. During the last stakeholder update meeting, the stakeholders requested Peter to provide bi-weekly project updates instead of monthly updates. The communication management plan has been broadly framed and it doesn’t restrict Stanley from doing bi-weekly updates. What should Peter do? | Start providing bi-weekly updates instead of monthly updates.
In an underground highway construction project, the project stakeholders have suggested many changes to the project scope. As you have already defined the cost baseline in your project, you would like to revisit the baseline to see how these changes impact the overall cost of the project. So, you have started an impact analysis to determine the impact, and inform the concerned stakeholders of all approved changes and the corresponding costs. You must use the following to carry out such process: | Control Costs
You are managing a fund raising golf tournament that has a hole-in-one contest. However, your company can’t afford to pay the $1,000,000 award if someone does get a hole in one, so they have elected to take out an insurance policy in the event that someone does get lucky. This is an example of? | Transference
Which of the following documents will help trace the requirements to product design? | Requirements traceability matrix
You are analyzing the risk in a project and decide to do sensitivity analysis to determine which risks have the most potential impact on the project. You look at a tool to help compare the relative importance of variables that have a high degree of uncertainty to those that are more stable. One such tool is: | Tornado Diagram
A Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) dictionary supports the WBS and is a companion document to the WBS. Which of the following is not included in the WBS dictionary? | Resource assigned
In a Finish to Start relationship between predecessor and successor activities, a project manager decides to schedule a successor activity 5 days before its predecessor is complete. This is accomplished by providing 5 days of: | Lead
Your are working for a large project organization, with several project managers, working on 15 projects. All project managers submit their status reports at month end. One of your colleague project manager has reported an error in last 2 months. Discussing the issue with one of her project’s team members, who is also working on one of your projects, you realize that she is deliberately misreporting the project’s status, to pump-up her performance as the annual performance appraisal is due next month. The month-end review meeting will be held in 2 days time as you are preparing your presentation for the same. What should you say about her status report? | Report the incorrect status to the appropriate management.
Costs incurred in one area of a project can offset costs in another area of the same project. However, it is not the best practice to consider only the costs of project execution when making project decisions. What must also be considered? | Operating costs
Johan is a project manager working for a Norwegian accounting firm. To get results, Johan often tells team members that if deadlines are not met, he will have to discuss their performance with their functional managers. Johan’s organization can not be a: | Projectized organization
What is the critical path for this project? | 14 days
Which of the following items needs to be kept in mind when relying on risk identification checklists? | They are not exhaustive.
What is the free float for Activity B? | 2 days
A project manager is performing a set of processes in the Initiating Process Group. Which of the following is likely to be part of the Initiating Process Group? | Develop Project Charter
You have been offered a position managing a project that will last 12 months. However, you know that in 6 months you will be relocating to another state for family reasons. What should you do? | Disclose your relocation plans to the hiring manager.
The RACI chart is an example for a responsibility assignment matrix (RAM). The letters R and C in RACI chart stand for | Responsible and consult
Peter is managing the development of an ecommerce website for his organization. Peter enjoys coercive powers and has assigned Julie, a project team member, to facilitate the team meetings. During any team meeting, Julie must? | Remain neutral and facilitate the meetings
Experienced project managers always tell that accuracy and precision are not the same. Precise measurements may not be accurate and accurate measurements may not be precise. Which of the following statementsabout the precision and accuracy are CORRECT? | Precision means the values of repeated measurements are clustered and Accuracy means the measured value is close to the actual value
You are setting up your project team and you are looking at a chart that shows that the programming will be performed by Systems Development, the infrastructure will be implemented by Infrastructure Systems, the customer communication will be handled by the Call Center. This is an example of what type of chart? | Organizational Breakdown Structure (OBS)
Richard is currently assessing his project stakeholders influences, interests, expectations, risk tolerance and engagement levels. This relates to which of the following tools and techniques? | Stakeholder analysis
A company you worked for several years ago is bidding on a project your new company will be starting in approximately 6 months. You have been selected to manage the project, and will be participating in the vendor selection processes. What should you do? | Notify the project stakeholders of your status as a former employee of the bidding company, and comply with their preferences for how you participate in the vendor selection process.
Which of the following statements most accurately describes a project scenario? | Staffing peaks up during the execution phase of a project.
You have been asked by your project manager to help them create a chart that illustrates the project resources that will be working on each work package. What would be the best type of chart to use? | RACI chart
As the project manager of a high-visibility project, you are in the process of Identifying risks. You are concerned that the data you collect might be biased. A technique that helps keep the bias out of the data and keeps any one person from having undue influence on the outcome is: | Delphi technique
Progressive elaboration is least applicable to which of the following processes? | Control Schedule
You are the project manager of a project executing work under a contract signed with a buyer organization. Just after the project has started, you notice that the buyer organization had made a mistake in the financial terms and your organization stands to benefit considerably through this oversight. What should your stance be? | Bring the error to the notice of the buyer organization and have an amendment made to the contract since this was in good faith.
You have completed a milestone in your software development project and you are now verifying that the product meets the specifications outlined in the project management plan. What process group is this process in? | Monitor and Controlling
If you want a group of experts to identify project risks, but also want unbiased data, what is an appropriate technique to use? | Delphi technique
You are a Project Manager for a company that designs and develops automation systems for car companies. You are in the Close Project process for a project in which a new automation system has been designed and created for a car company located in Korea. You need to obtain formal acceptance for the new automation system. All of the following statements are true with respect to the final acceptance of the new system EXCEPT? | Final acceptance for the new automation system can be informal or formal.
You are working on a waste management project that, upon competition, will be handed over to the local municipality for steady state operation. Parking of the trucks and other vehicles has become a major problem because no parking area has been allotted to you on the main dumping site. As a result, your trucks are being parked on nearby roadsides. One of the fleet supervisor tells you that there is a large tract of land very close to the main site, that is owned by a local charity. Many locals park their cars on this tract of land. What should you do? | Ask the supervisor to get contact information of the local charity.
As a project manager, where would you document the escalation process to resolve issues that cannot be resolved at a lower staff level? | Communications Management Plan
Which of these statements is accurate regarding quality management? | Modern quality management complements project management
Your organization has recognized a need to replace the legacy manufacturing system with a modern software application to reduce delivery delays and process downtime. Your IT director anticipates a project to fulfill this business need, however, he warns that the new project’s budget cannot exceed $75,000 due to shortages in the department budget. He also indicates that no additional staff will be allocated to this project other than the existing IT staff. If you are assigned as a project manager to this project, you would document these initial project conditions as: | Project constraints in the project charter
Which of these items are important to address when determining each person’s role in the project team? | Role, authority, responsibility, and competency
Midway through the Collect Requirements process, a project manager finds that there are lots of unresolved issues. Which of the following is usually the best way to discover and resolve issues? | Facilitated workshops
You are a consulting project manager with over 15 years experience running software development projects. You have been engaged to manage a finance application project for a new customer. However on the first day onsite at the customer’s headquarters you are told the project has been cancelled, but there is a need for a project manager to manage a major infrastructure project to deploy a large number of servers and storage devices. The customer asks if you would be interested in leading this project. You have never managed this type of project before but would be interested in the challenge. Which of the follow is the best response? | Decline the opportunity, citing your lack of experience and knowledge in this area.
A Resource Breakdown Structure (RBS) would be used to breakdown the project by type of resources. The RBS is an example of a: | Hierarchical chart
Accepted deliverables are an input to the Close Project or Phase process. These deliverables would have been accepted through which of the following processes? | Validate Scope
A project management team came up with certain metrics such as defect frequency, failure rate, availability and reliability. These are usually defined as an output of what process? | Plan Quality Management
An organization wishes to ensure that the opportunity arising from a risk with positive impact is realized. This organization should: | Exploit the risk
The Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) is a deliverable-oriented hierarchical decomposition of the work to be executed by the project team, to accomplish the project objectives and create required deliverables. The ‘Create WBS’ is a process under which Knowledge Area? | Project Scope Management
As the Project Manager on the construction of a new hotel you have developed a project management plan that you believe is realistic and will be formally approved. The organizational assets that influenced the development of the plan may include all of the following except: | Business case for the project
The State of New York has contracted your company to provide a claims payment system for Medicaid benefits. In the contract there is a clause that indicates that the State of New York can review your work processes and deliverables. This is an example of? | Inspections and Audits
Long hours to meet a looming deadline and immense pressure for success from management is causing a downturn in team morale. Occasionally there are conflicts between team members over priorities and resources. How should these non-disruptive conflicts be handled? | Private, direct and collaborative approach should be used first
In the procurement process, the seller may be viewed initially as a bidder, then as the selected source and then as the contracted supplier. The seller will typically manage the work as a project. In such an instance, which of the following is not true? | There need not be a contractual relationship between the buyer and the seller
All team members have not yet been acquired for a project. However, the project manager went ahead with estimating activity durations, budgeting and other activities. What could likely happen to the activity durations? | The activity durations are likely to change.
Which of these tools is NOT a part of the Seven Basic Tools of Quality? | Statistical Sampling
Analogous Estimating is an estimation technique that use the values of parameters such as scope, cost, budget and duration from a previous similar activity as the basis of activity and is frequently used to estimate when there is a limited amount of information about the project. This is a form of: | Gross value estimation
A project manager used a control chart to determine whether a process was stable or not, and to determine if its performance was predictable. He determined the upper and lower specification limits based on the contractual requirements. A set of eighteen data points were taken. Of these, 8 consecutive data points were above the mean. What can you say about such a process? | A process is considered as out of control if seven consecutive data points are above or below the mean. Hence the process is out of control.
To communicate with stakeholders on the resolved issues and the issues that are hard to resolve, you use an issue log in your project. Since you assign an owner for every issue and resolve it by proactively working on it, your stakeholders actively support all your efforts in managing the project. This method of actively resolving issues and reducing risks to the project is known as: | Stakeholder management
A control chart is used to determine whether or not a process is stable or has predictable performance. When a process is within acceptable limits, the process need not be adjusted. What are the upper and lower control limits usually set as? |  + / – 3 sigma
A project is contracted as a Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee (CPFF) type of contract with a fee of 10% of estimated costs. The estimated cost is US$ 50,000. If the project comes in at US$ 75,000 with no changes in project scope, what would be the total cost of the contract? |  US$ 80,000
If you want to have multiple vendors bid on your contract, what is the best way to ensure that all vendors have the same information before bidding? | Hold a bidder conference
Which of the following processes produces a Risk Register? | Identify Risks
You are the Project Manager for Motor Cars, Corp. You are working on a project for the Human Resources department that is scheduled to take one year. After three months into the project, you calculate the EV at $35,000 and the PV at $45,000. Which option below represents the value for the SV? | -$10,000
Project performance measurements are used to assess the magnitude of variation from the original scope baseline. Once the degree of scope variation is known, what step is performed next? | Root cause analysis of the cause of the variance relative to the scope baseline.
You are the Project Manager for Commodities, Inc. You are involved in a new project to create an internal web site for the employees of Commodities, Inc that will allow them to view events within the company. All of the following options listed are project constraints EXCEPT? | The navigation menu for the website must be on the top of the page.
A project manager is informed that a limited number of resources are going to be available for his project. He creates a project schedule by adding buffers to the project to protect the target finish date. What type of schedule network analysis is he using? | Critical chain method
Quantitative risk analysis should be performed: | only on prioritized risks
A project team is currently planning to perform the Monitor Stakeholder Engagement process to reassess the project stakeholders’ current engagement levels and review the current stakeholder management strategy. Which of the following is an output of this process? | Project documents updates
You are the Project Manager of a large IT project. A manager from a company contracted to work on the project offers you free tickets to a local sporting event. The tickets are expensive but your organization has no formal policy regarding gifts. What is the BEST way to handle the offer? | Politely refuse the tickets.
John is the project documents controller for a multi-million dollar telecom network deployment project. John has just received a document from the project manager. This document contains the project stakeholders’ communication requirements for the current project phase. John should update which of the following project documents with this information? | Stakeholder management plan
You have recently been successful in passing the Project Management Professional exam. Others within the organization you work for are also pursuing the certification and have sought your assistance. They have requested that you provide them with a detailed list of the questions that you had on the exam. What is the FIRST course of action you should take? | Indicate that you cannot disclose questions you saw on the exam.
During the weekly change control board meeting, you invited the facilities manager to speak about the change request to increase the BTU’s to the air conditioning system in the new data center. This is an example of what type of tool and technique in the Perform Integrated Change Control process? | Expert Judgment
If you are working on a project where there is no definite project detailed scope, but similar projects have been completed in the past, what is the correct Estimate Activity Durations tool to use? | Analogous Estimating
A construction project requires that governmental environmental hearings be held prior to site preparation. What kind of a dependency is this? | External dependency
During the Conduct Procurements process, the procuring organization found that there were significant differences in the pricing by different sellers. What is the best course of action in such a scenario? | Investigate whether the project statement of work was defective or ambiguous.
The product design your project team developed was very well received by the customer. There were two key contributors to this design. The customer calls you to tell you how pleased he is with the design. What do you tell him? | Thank him on behalf of the team and call out the contributions made by two of the team members.
A project is contracted as a Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee (CPFF) type of contract. The targeted cost is US$ 200,000 with a fee of US$ 30,000. If the project comes in at US$ 170,000, what would be the cost of the total contract? |  US$ 200,000
Teams go through various stages of development. As per the Tuckman ladder of development, the stage during which the least amount of work gets done is usually the: | Forming phase
John is the project manager of a large highway expansion project. He has a number of stakeholders with competing priorities and agendas, and often has to resolve conflicts between stakeholders. Which knowledge area manages communications with the project stakeholders? | Project Communications Management
You are a non-technical project manager. Two highly skilled and knowledgeable resources on your project are in conflict over the best technical solution to meet a project requirement. It is not impacting the project schedule, however. Who is initially responsible for the conflict resolution? | Both team members are initially responsible for the conflict resolution.
Peter’s project is in execution. Peter has a monthly stakeholder update meeting set up where he presents the project’s progress and current issues to the key stakeholders. During the last stakeholder update meeting, the stakeholders requested Peter to provide bi-weekly project updates instead of monthly updates. The communication management plan has been broadly framed and it doesn’t restrict Peter from doing bi-weekly updates. What should Peter do? | Start providing bi-weekly updates instead of monthly updates.
You are decomposing your WBS into smaller pieces of work. What is one item that does NOT describe how far the work should be decomposed? | Cannot be decomposed more than 10 levels
Peter has been assigned to design a new car model for a well-known car manufacturer. The project has a small number of key stakeholders and Peter is planning to meet all of them in person in order to understand their requirements and expectations. Which of the following is not a project key stakeholder? | Competitor
Which of these statements is true? | The cost of preventing mistakes is generally much lesser than the cost of correcting them as revealed by inspection.
The list of identified risks is found in the risk register. However, the high-level risks are first listed in the: | Project charter
Decision tree analysis is used to calculate the average outcome when the future includes scenarios that may or may not happen. What is the input and output in a decision node? | Input: Cost of each decision Output: Decision made
The three categories into which contracts can be broadly classified are: | Fixed Price, Cost-Reimbursable, Time and material.
Which of these is not an information gathering technique used in the Identify Risks process? | Delta technique
Your project team is having a dispute with a vendor about whether a specific task is within the scope of the project. The scope statement does not provide implementation level details that would resolve this discussion. There is not a WBS however, because the project sponsor insisted that the project be started right away, without pausing to create standard project planning documentation. Who is at fault? | The project manager
A team of engineers is reviewing the architecture diagram for a new ERP system being deployed at a large accounting firm. The engineers are discussing the impact of the failure of each node in the diagram on overall availability of the final product. The intent of the discussion is to minimize the likelihood of failure and the effects of any failure. What is this called? | Failure Mode and Effect Analysis
A number of ethical issues came up in a large project consisting of 55 team members. The project manager explained to the sponsor that this was a common problem in larger teams. Whose responsibility is it to ensure that all team members maintain professionalism and follow ethical behavior? | The project management team
Peter is in the execution phase of his project. He is getting unexpected requests from his stakeholders about the project progress. All of the following can be used by Peter to respond to their requests EXCEPT: | The stakeholder register
Mandatory dependencies are those that are inherent in the nature of the work being done. They often involve physical limitations, such as on a construction project where it is impossible to erect the superstructure until the foundation has been built. According to the PMBOK, this type of dependency is also called: | Hard logic
Projects are often started as a result of an external factor such as market demand for a new product, a new legislative or regulatory mandate, or a change in technology. This results in the creation of ___________ by an entity or organization external to the project. | the project charter
In which of the following situations would it be better to avoid using Analogous Estimating? | When an accurate estimate is required
Which of the following estimating techniques will cost less, but is also generally less accurate? | Analogous Estimating
Jane is an experienced project manager. As part of the Collect Requirements phase, she decides to use a group creativity technique. This technique is expected to enhance brainstorming with a voting process, and can be used to rank the most useful ideas for further brainstorming or prioritization. Which of the following will she likely use? | Nominal group technique
As a project manager, you are responsible for determining and delivering the required levels of both grade and quality. Select which of the following statements you disagree with. | Grade relates to the customer requirements
The cost estimates for a project are in the range of +/- 5 %. What phase is the project likely to be in? | Closing phase
Emily is a first-time project manager and is analyzing a project schedule. She intends to apply resource leveling and has been given the following guidelines on resource leveling. Which of these four statements is incorrect? | Resource leveling is applied to a schedule before it has been analyzed by the critical path method.
You are a business development manager at a mid sized automobile manufacturing company. Recently, you’ve been given a project to evaluate the possibility of manufacturing light duty trucks in a Southeastern Asian country. To develop a cost estimate, you visit the country with a team of experts to analyze local resources such as power, labor, and real estate. After the visit, you discuss the findings with an automobile manufacturing consultant. The consultant notes that the local laws and government bureaucracy typically means foreign investors spend more over a year obtaining all required permits. To avoid these delays, the consultant advises exchanging a small amount of company stock to the son of the country’s president. In return for the stock, the president’s son will personally handle and expedite the issuing of all permits required. What should you do? | Determine the legality of the proposed exchange of stock for permitting assistance.
Which of the following statements is correct? | A collection of unrelated programs can constitute a portfolio.
The Quality Policy is the intended direction of a performing organization with regard to quality. As a project manager in a performing organization, you find that the organization lacks a formal quality policy. What should be done in such a case? | The project management team will need to develop a quality policy for the project.
A project is contracted as a Cost-Plus-Incentive-Fee (CPIF) type of contract. The project is negotiated such that if the final costs are less than expected costs, the sharing formula for cost savings is 80:20. The targeted cost is US$ 500,000 with a 10% fee. If the project comes in at US$ 450,000, what would be the cost of the total contract? |  US$ 510,000
The project you are working on has received an invoice from a vendor for USD $17,500. However, your team believes the correct total due is $15,300. When you notify the vendor of this, the vendor still insists on US$ 17,500. What is the best course of action now? | Negotiate with the vendor.
During the execution of your project, you decide that you would like to have charts of your project status – cost and schedule, display certain key project data, and hold your project meetings in a specific conference room. Such a place would be called: | War room
As part of your staffing management plan, you have developed a chart indicating the # of hours (Y axis) a senior programmer will be working over the months (X axis) of the project. This is an example of what? | Resource Histogram
A project to design and build a new aircraft is cancelled after the project has been underway for some time. What process is invoked to document what work was done, and to what extent it was completed? | Close Project or Phase
The term ____________ indicates the degree to which a particular product or service meets requirements, while ____________ indicates a category or rank used to distinguish that item from other similar items. | Quality, grade
You have a schedule activity that can be delayed without delaying the early start date of any subsequent activities. This is an example of? | Free Float
You are the project manager from a seller organization, based at the customer location. One of your team members is involved in certain unacceptable activities at the customer location. The HR manager of the customer team organizes a meeting between you, the team-member, your customer- manager and HR wherein the team member apologizes for his activities and agrees not to repeat them. You should: | Report this incident immediately to HR of your organization and to your managers.
A project manager is performing a set of processes in the Initiating Process Group. Which of the following is likely to be part of the Initiating Process Group? | Develop Project Charter
While having lunch with another project manager, he tells you that he underestimated the number of staff resources needed for his project by nearly 50%, but says he has plenty of reserves to cover the costs. During the next staff meeting, the same project manager says he has nothing new to report for his project and that all is progressing according to schedule. What do you do? | Report this to the appropriate management.
You are a PMP who is nearing the end of an important project. You have spent considerable energy on this project nurturing a cooperative relationship between your organization and the customer. What is the customer’s MOST important role in bringing the project to a close? | The customer provides formal acceptance of the product, service, or result
Peter is managing a power distribution network design project. The project is currently in the planning phase. During the Plan Stakeholder Engagement process, Peter feels the need to update the project stakeholder register. What should Peter do? | Peter should update the stakeholder register; the stakeholder register can be updated during the Plan Stakeholder Engagement process.
Emily is currently identifying her project stakeholders. Which of the following is the key input to this process? | Project charter
Which of the following scenarios is likely to occur in a project? | Cost and staffing levels are low at the start of the project.
In a car design project, a project manager is in the process of negotiating with a consulting company to ensure that project receives certified and specialized consultants for creating the engine design. The project manager wants to make sure that the consultants will be able to work until their assignments are completed. He is using his negotiation skills and interpersonal skills to get competent staff on time. Based on the scenario described above, the project manager is engaged in: | Acquire Resources process
The formula for Cost Variance is: | CV=EV-AC
A change request that is issued to bring the performance of the project back in line with the project management plan is related to: | Corrective action
A project manager is spending majority of the project funding in the current phase of the project. Not only she is spending her money but also managing various resources in the project. What is the stakeholder influence on the project now compared to earlier phases? | Less
What is the difference between a histogram and a Pareto chart? | A Pareto chart is a type of histogram.
A project manager scheduled a review at the end of a phase, with the objective of obtaining authorization to close the current project phase and initiate the next phase. Which of the following is an incorrect way of describing this review? | Phase planning
Which tool is BEST used to display how a company structures itself departmentally? | OBS
You have been identified as the project manager for constructing a large shopping mall in your city. Which of the following are not necessarily stakeholders in your project? | A senior project manager in your organization who just completed a similar project.
The senior analyst on a project came up with Activity Duration Estimates as follows: Activity A: 10 days + a lag of 2 days; Activity B: 1 week + a lead of 3 days. The project manager who reviewed this, came up with some objections to these estimates. What would they most likely be? | Activity Duration Estimates should not include any lag or lead information.
You are managing a project which requires an environmental permit to do work. The approval is in the final stages of being granted when a confidential, reliable report is brought to your notice which indicates that there is a high risk of an environmental hazard due to the project. Your manager tells you that it is better to keep quiet at this stage since the loss due to non-starting/execution of the project is very high. You will: | Inform the necessary authorities of the hazard, even if it means that the project will be cancelled.
Your company has been awarded a very large software project by a government agency. This project has an early completion incentive, and your company has a policy of paying a bonus to the project manager if such an incentive is awarded. However, this particular government agency has a reputation for being very difficult to work with; there is a great deal of bureaucracy within this agency and stonewalling and hostile behavior toward contractors is very common. The project manager will need to have excellent political skills to successfully lead this project. You have been asked to lead the project because of your expertise with this type of project. However, you have never worked within such a highly charged and political environment. What should you do? | Accept the project but disclose your lack of experience in this type of environment.
Changes in the projects are inevitable. So, project managers must develop or use a system to manage and control changes. There are four types of changes that need to be controlled in a project. Project changes, deliverable changes, process changes, and baseline changes. The impact of each of these changes must be evaluated and approved or rejected changes must be communicated to all stakeholders as and when required. Which of the following helps controlling the above mentioned changes? | Configuration control and Change control
A first-time project manager created a Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) where the deliverables had different levels of decomposition. What would your comment on this be? | This is fine. Different deliverables can have different levels of decomposition depending on the work involved.
Variance Analysis is an important tool used in the Control Costs Process. Which of the following statements regarding variances is correct? | The percentage range of acceptable variances will tend to decrease as more work is accomplished
A project manager of a project that was contracted on a Time and Material basis finds that some of the tasks have been taking lesser time than planned. On average each team member has required only 30 hours to accomplish work which was planned for 40 hours during the week. The project manager should: | Report this accurately on the status report and ensure that activities are re-planned as necessary, to keep the team completely occupied.
During your weekly status reports you are reporting the earned value for the project. This information is important for you and the stakeholders to gauge the progress of the project. What process group are the cost and schedule control part of? | Monitoring and Controlling
Which of the following is not a Risk-Diagramming Technique? | Control charts
You are managing a project that has a task to translate several pages of a document into Spanish. This is very similar to a project done last year where a document was translated into German. You are not sure how long it will take to translate into Spanish so you look at the project plan from the German translation and use the activity duration for your current project. What type of estimating is this an example of? | Analogous Estimating
A large construction project for a logistics company will require the expenditure of a large amount of capital. The finance group works with the project manager to project set limits when expenses will be incurred in a given project, and determine if there are ways to smooth out or level the spending to avoid a single large expenditure one quarter and none the next. This is an example of: | Funding Limit Reconciliation
There are 10 stakeholders in MegaMart’s ERP deployment project. How many potential communications channels are there? | 45
A project manager has scheduled technical training for her project team members in order to increase their skills. During which of the following processes these trainings will be delivered to the team members? | Develop Team
Which of these is not an approved Estimate Activity Durations technique? | Critical Path Estimation
Three strategies that typically deal with negative risks or threats are: | Avoid, Transfer and Mitigate
You work at a software company that authors Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for chemical companies. Prior to releasing the MSDS to the company you have created a list of items to be reviewed to see that they appear on the document such as: chemical name, CAS#, protection required, what to do an emergency, etc. This is an example of what type of tool? | Checklist
As the project manager of a project, you have needed to estimate certain activity durations before all project team members were acquired. On acquisition of the project team, you find that the actual competency levels of the acquired team members are much lower than what you had anticipated. In such a case, you will: | Make changes to activity duration and schedule incorporating the changed competency levels.
Public recognition of good performance creates positive reinforcement for the team members. When is the best time for a project manager to recognize team members’ performance? | During the lifecycle of the project
The Budget at Completion (BAC) for a project is $50,000. The Actual Costs (AC) to date are $10,000. The Earned Value (EV) is $7,000. At this stage, the project management team did a manual bottom-up summation of costs and forecast an Estimate to Complete (ETC) of $50,000. What is the Estimate at Completion (EAC) for the project? | $60,000
You are a Project Manager for Groceries R’ US, a supermarket chain, and are currently working on a project to build a new outlet. The planned values (PV) for the foundation and the frame are $150,000 and $500,000. After five months, you do a performance measurement analysis. You are currently not ahead of schedule. The actual costs for the foundation and frame were $175,000 and $650,000 up to this point where 100% of the foundation is complete and only 80% of the frame is complete. Which value represents the cost performance index (CPI) to two decimal places at this point in the project? |  0.67
Peter is a project manager in an organization and conducts a workshop on project management. Which of the following statements made by him about projects is incorrect? | Projects exist within an organization and operate as a closed system.
It was found that there were a large number of hidden requirements to be uncovered in the Collect Requirements phase. Which of the following tools should a project manager use to identify them? | Participant observer
Which quality control technique or tool should be used when trying to determine the cause of a major defect? | Fishbone diagram
In a project, Activity A has a duration of 4 days and begins on the morning of Monday the 4th. The successor Activity, B, has a Finish-to-Start (FS) relationship with A. The Finish-to-Start relationship has 2 days of lag, and Activity B has a duration of 3 days. If Saturday and Sunday are non working days, which of the following statements is true? | Activity B will be completed by the end of day on Thursday, 14th
There are two activities on your schedule, which are: 1) Install server in lab 2) Move server into the data center. However, the second task can’t start until the server has run in the lab for 5 days without failure. This is an example of what? | Lag
Emily works for a Federal agency that manages mission critical projects. As a project manager, she is responsible for all communication needs in her data center project, which has started recently. This project involves many stakeholders, customers, external vendors and team members. Since conflicts are inevitable in such a huge project, she has decided to provide her project team the details of the issue escalation process including the names of the chain of command to escalate the issues that cannot be resolved at a lower level. Emily must use the following document to store this information: | The communication management plan
In the procurement process, the seller may be viewed initially as a bidder, then as the selected source and then as the contracted supplier. The seller will typically manage the work as a project. In such an instance, which of the following is not true? | There need not be a contractual relationship between the buyer and the seller
A project manager is planning out the availability of resources as part of the Acquire Resources process. He needs to acquire resources that report to a functional manager. What technique will he likely use to obtain these resources? | Negotiation
Which of the following is not an example of parametric estimating? | Activity duration estimated based on the actual duration of a similar, previous project.
Variance analysis refers to cost performance measurements used to assess the magnitude of variation in comparison to the original cost baseline. What is the trend on the percentage range of acceptable variances as the project progresses? | The percentage range of acceptable variances will tend to decrease as the project progresses.
Which of the following is not an appropriate method for dealing with a negative risk? | Exploit
Which of the following is not an enterprise environmental factor influencing the Develop Project Management Plan process? | Project Management Plan template
Which of the following is not accurate about the initial phase of a project? | The cost associated at the beginning of the project is highest
Jane is currently populating her project’s stakeholder register with the names and details of the people identified during the Identify Stakeholders process. Some of these people are not supporting the project but they can directly influence the project. Jane is adding these people to her project’s stakeholder register because? | These people are negative stakeholders and they have to be closely managed.
Peter is the project manager of an external project for a customer. The project is expected to take about a year to complete. Six months into the project, the customer informs Peter that the project needs to be scrapped. During which of the following processes would procedures be developed to handle early termination of a project? | Close Project or Phase
Two efficiency indicators that reflect the cost and schedule performance of a project are: | Cost Performance Index (CPI) and Schedule Performance Index (SPI)
Which technique is NOT commonly used to align the timing of activities with available resources? | Critical Path Method
At division project status meeting, a dashboard of cost metrics for each project is distributed to all attendees, and each project manager is presenting the status of their project. The metrics for one project show a BAC of $1100, an EV of $998, and a EAC of $1099. However the project manager is reporting an ETC of $354 in her presentation. What do you do? | Notify the appropriate management there is a calculation error.
Bill and Jake are two team members in a project. They do not get on well, and are constantly involved in verbal fights. The project manager steps in to resolve the situation. As an experienced project manager, he understands the characteristics of conflict and the conflict management process. Which of the following is not a characteristic of conflict? | The project manager is not responsible for conflict management.
How will an organization with a weak matrix organization structure affect the Plan Resource Management process? | The project manager will have a relatively weaker role.
Mark is managing an airport construction project. He is currently identifying his project stakeholders and he has already got a huge list of stakeholders. Managing expectations of each and every project stakeholder is not practical. What should be done in this situation? | Project stakeholders should be prioritized based on their influence and interest.
Negative risks can either be ___________ , transferred, or mitigated as a countermeasure. | avoided
Jane is managing an office refurbishment project. All of the project stakeholders have been identified and classified. The stakeholder management plan has also been approved. Jane is managing a project for the first time in her life and she is relying on the PMBOK guide as a reference to deliver a great project.  | Manage Stakeholder Engagement
What similarity exists between a cost-reimbursable contract and a time and material contract? | They are open ended
After brainstorming potential project risks, what is the recommended method for prioritizing these risks and their mitigation plans? | Probability and impact matrix
Which of the Project Schedule Management processes involves identifying and documenting dependencies between schedule activities? | Sequence Activities
The paint on the exotic cars that are manufactured in your plant is bubbling after about a year of application. What would be the BEST tool for your team to use to find potential causes of the peeling paint? | Ishikawa Diagram
For your weekly project status review meetings, you set some time aside on the agenda to review the risk register and review the project risks. You ensure that the response plans are still appropriate and add or delete risks as necessary. This is an example of? | Risk Reassessment
You have completed your estimates for your project and determined that it will take 10 months to complete. However, your project sponsor insists that it be completed in 9 months. How do you handle this? | Inform the sponsor you will have to explore the options before committing to that timeline.
Which of the following statements accurately describes how the completion of project scope and product scope is measured? | The completion of project scope is measured against the project management plan whereas the completion of product scope is measured against the product requirements.
The number of communication channels depends on the number of team members in any project. If five team members are released from a team of 25, how many communication channels remain in the project? |  190
A project team is currently inspecting the recent project deliverables. The team is recording the number and the nature of defects found in these deliverables. The defect details list in this case is an example of? | Work performance data
A project manager found that some of the project work was not done at the right time and was done in an improper sequence. What do you think was the likely issue? | The Work Authorization System was not properly established in the project.
Which of the following statements is incorrect? | A project manager must not acquire resources needed to develop effective project teams.
Identification of new risks, reassessment of old risks and closing of outdated risks are done as part of the Monitor Risks process. How often should project risk reassessment be scheduled? | It depends on how the project progresses relative to its objectives.
Probability distributions are frequently used in Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis. Which of these is not a valid example of such a distribution? | Sigma distribution
The Project Charter formally authorizes a project. Who authorizes the project charter? | A project sponsor or initiator external to the project
A control chart should always contain: ______________ | Upper and lower control limits
The Cost of Quality principle includes: _______________ | The costs of ensuring conformance to requirements.
Which of the following is considered an output from the Direct and Manage Project Work process? | Work performance data
John is managing a computer network deployment project at a university campus. John wants to involve the key project stakeholders in the scheduling of the major work packages. He sends out a meeting invitation to all key stakeholders for this brainstorming session. Which of the following types of communication methods has John selected for the brainstorming? | Interactive communication
Which of the following contains an extensive procurement changes approval process? | Contract change control system
You have been asked to fill in for another project manager while he is on vacation. During the next project status meeting, you ask for a risk report. The project team says they have never reported on that before, and are unsure if there is a master project risk log. What do you do? | Notify the project stakeholders.
The sponsor and the project manager are discussing what type of contract the project manager plans to use on the project. The buyer points out that the performing organization spent a lot of money hiring a design team to come up with the design. The project manager is interested in seeing that the risk for the buyer be as small as possible. An advantage of a fixed price contract for the buyer is: | Cost Risk is Lower
You are managing a project with a large multi-national staff. One of the engineers was originally tasked to deliver her part of the work on Oct 19, but due to the change in the critical path, her deliverable will be needed 2 days sooner. However, as the new deadline is still 2 weeks away and she is ahead of schedule, you are confident that her delivery will be on time. During a staff meeting, you learn from her functional manager that this engineer celebrates a religious holiday on Oct 17. He tells you that the engineer is not particularly religious, however, and if pushed a bit and offered some incentive she may forego celebrating this holiday and come to work. What should you do? | Check if one of her colleagues can share some of her workload this week
Sheila is a project manager managing a global project. She has stakeholders located in various parts of the globe. Due to the nature of the project, she also has large volumes of information that needs to be shared with the recipients. What type of communication method should she prefer for this purpose? | Pull communication
When writing the roles and responsibilities for team members, you should document the role, authority, responsibility and competency for each team member. Where must this information be documented? | Human resource management plan
Accounting for the limited resources in the project schedule is called: | Critical chain method
You are the project manager responsible for building a 100,000 sq. ft. data center. One of the schedule activities in your plan is to install the Computer Room Air Conditioning (CRAC) units, however in order to start the installation of the units the raised floor in the data center must be completely installed first. This is an example of what type of precedence relationship? | Finish to Start
The Executive VP of Finance has informed you that you will be the Project Manager for an energy audit the company is performing in order to save expenses. He has tasked you to identify the stakeholders and to start documenting the high-level assumptions and constraints. Your project is in what stage? | Initiating
A number of deliverables were submitted to the buyer as part of a project. Where would the project manager find documentation on the requirements for formal deliverable acceptance and how non-conforming deliverables can be addressed? | In the agreement
Which of the following is NOT a tool or technique of the Acquire Resources process? | Conflict management
Sally, a project manager was reconciling expenditure of funds with funding limits on the commitment of funds for the project. She found a large variance between the funding limits and planned expenditures. As a result, she decided to reschedule work to level out the rate of expenditures. This is known as: | Funding limit reconciliation
A project manager from a buyer organization is invited to lunch by the manager of a seller organization. The project manager’s organization does not permit receipt of gifts from vendors. The project manager should: | Insist on paying for his / her lunch.
A planning technique used to provide products, services and results that truly reflect customer requirements by translating those customer requirements into the appropriate technical requirements for each phase of project product development is called: | Voice of the Customer
The organization’s safety and health policy, ethics policy, project policy, and quality policy can be used in a project to influence it’s success. All these policies are a part of: | Organizational process assets
A project was randomly picked up for a quality audit and a number of issues and non-conformances were found by the external auditor. The project manager lodged a protest with the quality department that this was incorrect procedure and he should have been given notice since an external auditor was involved. What is your view? | The project manager has no case. Quality audits may be random and performed by internal or external auditors.
James has been managing a hotel construction project in a busy street. He is in the process of estimating activity durations for building walls and calculates the most likely estimate as 15 days. If pre-fabricated material is used, it would take no more than 12 days to finish the work. However, the work may be delayed and could take up to 18 days if less experienced construction workers are used to build the walls. But, the engineer in-charge of the work estimates the duration as 8 days when pre-fabricated material is used. What is the expected duration of building walls using the three-point (PERT) estimate, if the engineer’s estimation is assumed correct? | 14 days
To control the schedule, a project manager is re-analyzing the project to predict project duration. This is done by analyzing the sequence of activities with the least amount of flexibility. What technique is being used? | Critical Path Method
You are managing a multi-million dollar project, and discover several critical pieces of data in the project information repository have been modified without authorization. What should you do? | Determine the extent of the data breach and notify the appropriate project and company staff of the incident.
You have just been assigned a project with an unrealistic deadline. What do you do? | Insist that the deadlines for the project be changed.
Your project is slightly behind schedule, and you have not yet made a full impact assessment to make associated project changes to accommodate it. The weekly project status meeting is this afternoon, and because of your conference call schedule this morning you will not be able to complete the assessment to report to in the meeting. However, this is only a minor delay and you do not want anyone to worry unnecessarily. What is the best response? | Report the actual status of the project in the meeting, and assure the project team that additional updates will be coming soon.
Jonathan has recently been hired in a company as a business improvement manager. Jonathan has been asked to reorganize the company’s meetings and reporting structure. Jonathan is currently identifying all key project stakeholders. Which of the following enterprise environmental factors is least likely to be used as an input to this process? | Project management information system.
A Probability and Impact Matrix contains risks prioritized according to their potential implications for meeting the project’s objectives. The typical approach is: | To use a look-up table or Probability and Impact Matrix with specific combinations of Probability and impact that lead to a risk being rated as “high”, “moderate” or “low” importance. The importance for planning responses to the risk are usually set by the organization.
Tracy has recently taken over a website development project. The project is already in execution and half of the project work has been completed. Tracy finds out that the stakeholder register does not contain any information about key stakeholders from the buyer of the product. What is the potential root cause of this issue? | The Identify Stakeholders process was not properly carried out in the past.
________________ includes the processes required to ensure that the project includes all the work required, and only the work required, to complete the project successfully. | Project Scope Management
Which of the following processes deals with maintaining the integrity of baselines by releasing only approved changes for incorporation into the project management plan? | Perform Integrated Change Control
While managing a project, you decide to contract to an external enterprise. You enter into a contract where you pay the external enterprise a set amount (as defined by the contract), irrespective of the seller’s costs. What would best describe this type of contract? | FFP
A project manager is using a Risk Diagramming technique that is a graphical representation of situations showing causal influences, time ordering of events and other relationships among variables and outcomes. This would be: | An Influence Diagram
No matter how good you are in communicating, information distribution to stakeholders as planned is a challenging task. Many tools and techniques are used during the Manage Communications process EXCEPT: | Work performance reports
Peter is managing a website development project. He has recently received a feedback from one of the key project stakeholders. The feedback is overall positive but it contains some recommendations. After analyzing the recommendations, Peter accepts them, gets them approved and incorporates them into the project management plan. What needs to be done with this feedback now? | Add it to the organizational process assets
Sensitivity analysis helps to determine which risks have the most potential impact on the project. A project manager prepared a display chart of sensitivity analysis for his project. The diagram contained a series of bars with the length of the bars corresponding to the risk impact on the project. The longer the bars, the greater was the risk presented. Such a diagram is likely to be: | A tornado diagram
You have been assigned as a project manager of a new project to be executed out of New York. However, you determine that the project requires a Global Positioning Systems Expert who is not available within the company in New York. On doing a little checking, you determine that the company has an expert based in London, who is suitable for the project. However, the London based employee is not willing to relocate to New York for the project. In such a case: | You would look at the option of moving ahead with the project by using a virtual team.
You have just taken over a project from another project manager about 6 months into a 12-month project. As you get to know the staff on the project, you become aware that 5 staff members are relatives of the previous project manager. What do you do? | Notify your project stakeholders there is a possibility that nepotism was behind some of the staffing decisions made on your project.
The Actual Cost (AC) is the total cost actually incurred and recorded in accomplishing work performed for an activity or work breakdown structure component. What is the upper limit for the AC? | There is no upper limit for the Actual Cost (AC).
You are the Project Manager for the production of an exotic car. You have completed the Define Scope process for your project. Which of the following may be generated through this process? | Project scope statement, Updates to Requirements traceability matrix
You are working on a project where a negative risk has occurred. However, you have no contingency plan for this risk. You call a meeting and a solution is devised to change the workflow until a permanent solution can be implemented. This is an example of? | Workaround
A project manager needed to shorten a project schedule. He decided to apply crashing, a schedule compression technique. Which of the following activities would not be an example of crashing? | Reducing project scope
Which of the following statements is NOT true considering the management of risks in a project? | Positive risks are mitigated during the plan risk responses process.
You are forming a virtual project team that includes members from four different countries around the world. What is NOT an obstacle that you must overcome to build an effective team? | Members wanting to work from home
The degree to which the amount or volume of risk than an organization will withstand is: | Risk tolerance
Control charts are used to determine the stability of any process. Which of the following best describes the range of the control limits applied on a control chart? | 6 sigma
Jane is managing a software development project for the World Climate Control Organization. Since her team members are dispersed across the globe, she would like to set up online conferences in next two months to let everyone in her project know what is going on and what their role is within the project. She wants to use these conferences as team development activities to learn and exchange information in the project. To schedule such activities, which of the following should she use to know the availability of team members? | Resource calendars
Nancy can bid on two projects. ‘Project A’ has a 50% return on investment, while the ‘Project B’ has 20% return on investment. The Project A’s scope of work is complex and Nancy’s organizations doesn’t have the necessary skills and experience to perform this project. However, Project B’s scope of work falls within the strengths of Nancy’s organizations. Which project must Nancy bid on? | Project B since the organization has the required skills
A first-time project manager decided that he would have a ‘perfect project’. He informed the customer that this project would not accept change requests of any kind and the scope would need to be detailed out accurately right at the start of the project. The customer agreed to this request. What would your comment on this situation be? | This is unrealistic and impractical. Change is inevitable and rather than look at a ‘no change’ project, it would be more in the project interests to plan for a robust change control process.
A project manager is managing a project where there are teams located in remote locations in order to obtain cost savings. This is in line with organizational guidelines which require that at least 25% of work should be done from a remote location. This is an example of: | A constraint
The method used in the plan quality management process to identify the factors that may influence specific variables of a product under development is known as: | The design of experiments
Which of the following should be done FIRST during the Project Life Cycle? | Identify the key people and organizations that have a stake in the project.
Which of the following roles in a project is more likely to be involved in negotiations on procurements during the Conduct Procurements phase? | Procurement administrator
Emily is the project manager for a dam construction project. All project communications are recorded and documented for future reference. It has been decided that the project team will maintain last three months of project communication records at any given point in time. It has also been decided that the older communication records will be archived on a monthly basis. Where these records must be archived? | Organizational process assets
In a project that was yet to begin, many of the project team members were known in advance. This is called: | Pre-assignment
Which of the following is the process of communicating and working with stakeholders to meet their needs and expectations, address issues as they occur, and foster appropriate stakeholder engagement? | Manage Stakeholder Engagement
You have just been hired by a waste management company to start a solid waste management program in an under-developed country. The project will be on a build-operate-transfer basis and have a duration of 2 years. At close of the project, the program will be run by local authorities. The project has been sponsored by the World Bank and has been awarded to a large international consortium. Your company has been subcontracted to do this project along with 2 more contractor companies. After the project scope was finalized, you developed a cost estimate of USD $5.5 million. The sponsor reviews your detailed costing sheets, and is concerned about the total cost figure. He tells you that the maximum allowable budget he can allocate for this project is USD $5 million. What should you do? | Evaluate ways that can result in cost savings and re-estimate the project.
A first-time project manager is advised by an experienced project manager that he needs to plan for cost of quality. The first-time project manager is not sure of what costs are included in the cost of quality. What would your advise be? | Cost of quality includes cost of conformance and cost of nonconformance
Andrew is the project manager of a project and is planning responses to a set of risks. As a direct response of implementing this risk response, he anticipates certain other risks to arise. These would be termed as: | Secondary risks
Your company took over the management of a project from another company that went out of business. To minimize disruptions related to the transition, your company hired a number of the employees from the other company. One of these employees has delivered a 300 page document a week ahead of schedule. However, while walking past his desk you notice he has a document opened on his computer with the logo of his former employer. You suspect that some of his work may have been taken from documentation that is the property of the other company. What do you do? | Determine if any materials belonging to the other company have been copied.
During the Plan Procurement Management phase, the make-or-_____________  analysis must be completed. This technique prompts the project team to determine the source of their item. | buy
You are in the midst of a major code roll out for a new software module. However, it has come to your attention that the resources promised for the roll out are not going to be available. As the Project Manager, what is the BEST thing to do? | Explain the impact of the lost resources to the stakeholders
You are in charge of constructing the Ferris wheel in each town a carnival visits. However, this is something you have never done before and you are getting different opinions from others on how long it takes. Joe, is new and has given you what you believe to be an optimistic estimate of 3 hours, Bill says it will take 10 hours, which seems too long to you and quite pessimistic. Lastly, Margie, who is the most experienced at this task is telling you it will take 8 hours. You are not sure who to believe, so you decide to do a PERT estimation, based on this you have determined it will take how many hours to assemble the Ferris wheel. | 7.5 hours
A storm has damaged the manufacturing facility that is being constructed as part of your project. You have just discovered that, although the project risk management plan mandated that the facility be insured against damage and loss, this policy was never acquired and the losses now have to be covered by the project budget. Who is at fault ? | The project manager
During a project update meeting, one of the key stakeholders expressed his displeasure over the recently produced deliverables. 1% of the produced deliverables had minor defects. This stakeholder has been a resisting stakeholder so far. What must the project manager do in order to bring the future project performance in line with the approved quality requirements? | Investigate the root cause and identify the required corrective action.
Skills such as empathy, influence, creativity, and group facilitation are valuable assets when managing the project team. These skills are often referred to as ____________ . | Soft skills
A project manager in a seller organization discovered that certain deliverables had been handed over to the buyer without undergoing proper testing. Recalling the deliverables will result in a cost overrun to the project. What should the project manager do in such a case? | Recall the deliverables even though there will be a cost overrun.
Organizations strongly influence the project framework. The PMBOK Guide recognizes which of the following types of organizations? | Projectized, Functional
During the procurement process, a contractual relationship gets established between a buyer and a seller. During the contract lifecycle, what is the correct sequence in which the following terminology is applied to a seller? Vendor, Selected source, and Bidder. | The seller is viewed first as a bidder, then as a selected source and then as a vendor.
Which of the following statements best describes Time & Material (T&M) contracts? | T&M contracts are hybrid type of contractual agreements that could contain aspects of both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price type arrangements
A project needed to monitor the technical performance of the project and capture data related to how many errors or defects had been identified, and how many remained uncorrected. Which of the following techniques should the project use? | Histogram
Jane is managing a complex multimillion dollar project. The number of the project stakeholders is high and most of the project stakeholders are heavily interested in the project. Providing daily project updates to the project stakeholders is becoming difficult for Jane because of the effort required to prepare and distribute this information. In this situation, which of the following can help Jane prepare and distribute the project information? | Information management system
A project team is currently planning to perform the Monitor Stakeholder Engagement process to reassess the project stakeholders’ current engagement levels and review the current stakeholder management strategy. Which of the following is an output of this process? | Project documents updates
You have just sat through an exhausting change control meeting discussing a change in scope to the project you have been working on for the last 7 months. After lengthy discussion the change in scope was approved. As the Project Manager you should now update all of the following documentation, EXCEPT: | Project charter
Which of the following is not an input to the Conduct Procurements process? | Proposal evaluation techniques
Creating a sense of community is a benefit of what type of strategy? | Co-location
During a key stakeholders update meeting, George’s project was challenged. The project is currently in the executing phase. One of the key stakeholders challenged that the project no longer makes any business sense to her. What must George do next? | Update the issue log and request the stakeholder to provide more details.
You have recently acquired a project to develop Organic products for a retail store. You are making informal conversations and luncheon meetings with all your senior functional managers to understand various factors that impact the allocation of resources to the project. Which of the following BEST describes the activity you are undertaking? | You are using the networking technique to develop the human resource plan
The development of requirements in the Collect Requirements process begins with an analysis of the information contained in the _______________  and _______________. | Project charter, Stakeholder register
Statistical sampling involves choosing part of a population for inspection. Appropriate sampling can often _____________ the cost of quality control. | reduce
PMBOK recognizes five process groups typical of almost all projects. Which of the following is not one of them? | Pre-Inception
The process of auditing the quality requirements and the results from quality control measurements to ensure appropriate quality standards and operational definitions are used is the definition of: _____________ | Quality assurance
You are an experienced project manager and have managed several data center migration projects. You are currently conducting training on the databases, spreadsheets and management plans you will be using during the lifecycle of the project. This training is a tool and technique in what process? | Develop Team
If you are creating a new WBS for your project, what should you consider to save time during the creation process? | Use a previous WBS from a similar project as a template
You are presented with a situation in a project where you need to measure the performance of the project. Which of these techniques would suit your requirement? | Earned Value Technique
Which of the following is the best strategy for managing project stakeholders who have high interests in the project but do not have significant powers? | Keep them informed
A process that states how formal validation and acceptance of the completed project deliverables will be obtained is documented in the: | Scope Management plan
What is the BEST way to make an accurate forecasting of ETC? | Manual forecasting of cost of the remaining work.
Jane has been assigned to establish a PMO in her organization. Jane believes that this project cannot be successful unless all of the key project stakeholders support the project. She also believes that she needs to pay special attention on stakeholder management to ensure success of this project. As the first step, she needs to develop her stakeholder register. Which of the following processes must be started by Jane to produce the project stakeholder register? | Identify Stakeholders
A project team collects project work performance data and transforms that into work performance information for the key project stakeholders on a monthly basis. Which of the following does not provide a good platform to share this information with the stakeholders? | Project file updates
You are a project manager who is in charge of an important project for your company. The project includes producing widgets for your customer. Data has been collected to help identify the greatest causes of defects in the overall process. Which technique should you use to determine the correlation between two variables being analyzed? | Scatter diagram
A key output of Plan Resource Management is a list of project roles and responsibilities. What should this document include? | Role, Authority, Responsibility, Competency
Peter is managing a hardware deployment project, and is creating a risk management plan. Which of the following would NOT be included in this plan? | Templates
In general, Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis is: _____________. | quick and cost-effective
The project management team performed activities such as measuring examining and verifying to determine whether work and deliverables met requirements and product acceptance criteria. Which of the following choices refers to a different set of activities than the ones just mentioned? | Prevention
A project team has recently computed the project’s current schedule and cost performance indices. They have also calculated the new estimate to complete and the TCPI based on the new estimate at completion. The project key stakeholders are not fully aware of the earned value management process. These measures in this case are an example of ? | Work performance data
As you are creating the Activity List, which technique is recommended for subdividing the project into smaller components called activities? | Decomposition
In a textile manufacturing project, a team divided the whole project work into 35 work packages and assigned a few work packages to the design department for review. After the review, the manager of the design department requested the team to further divide the work packages into more manageable work components for estimating and scheduling the resources. In this scenario, which of the following techniques should the team use to complete the manager’s request? | Decomposition
During the Control Scope phase, analysis of the scope performance resulted in a change request to the scope baseline. This change request will be processed for review and disposition in the: | Perform Integrated Change Control phase
You are working with your customers on completed deliverables in your electronic parts manufacturing project. Since these parts are exported to other countries, they need more testing before your customers accept them. In this scenario, which of the following statements about the completed deliverables is CORRECT? | Completed deliverables not accepted by customers must require a change request for defect repair
As the project manager of a development project, you are aware that there is a slight defect in the product developed, as a result of which it will fail to meet certain regulatory standards. This was due to faulty requirements. You are also aware that the product will continue to function properly even though it fails to meet that standard. Your customer manager asks you to certify that the product meets the necessary regulatory standards, stating that this will not be verified when the report is submitted to the necessary authorities, so there is no issue with your certifying. Your stance is that: | You will not certify that a product meets certain regulations when it does not, even though the product continues to function well.
Emily’s project is in execution. Emily is currently planning to execute the Manage Stakeholder Engagement process. She has gathered the stakeholder management plan, the recent change log, and the necessary organizational process assets. Which of the following is a key input to this process that is still missing from this list? | Communications management plan
Projects, portfolios and programs are different entities in an organization. Which of the following choices states a correct relationship between them? | A portfolio consists of a collection of projects or programs that are grouped together to achieve strategic business objectives. The projects or programs need not be directly related.
While preparing a human resource plan, a project manager documented that one of the senior programmers in the team would make decisions on whether the quality of deliverables from the project met the project’s documented standards. Which of the following aspects of a human resource plan does this address? | Authority
A project manager is preparing the WBS for a software project. The WBS includes all the product and project work but excludes the project management work. From the following choices, select a statement that correctly describes this situation. | This is incorrect. Product work, project work and project management work should all be included in the WBS
Emily has been assigned as the project manager of a project. After a detailed discussion with the project management team, she decides to come up with a quality management plan that is informal and broadly framed. What would your comment on this be? | This is fine. The style and detail of the quality management plan is determined by the requirements of the project.
A research project needed to be carried out under largely undefined, uncertain and rapidly changing environmental conditions. If this project is carried out as a multi-phase project, which of the following phase-to-phase relationships best suits it? | Iterative relationship
During a cost performance review with certain senior officers from the finance department, you discover that there are certain inconsistencies in the way cost performance reporting is done, and you obtain data that shows these officers are deliberately misleading senior management. What should you do? | Bring this to the notice of senior management even though there are no formal policies in place for whistle-blowers.
When would Rolling Wave Planning be useful in a project? | You should use Rolling Wave Planning to help you achieve the appropriate level of detail in each work package at the right time.
A RAM diagram shows the relationship between ____________ and ____________ in a tabular format. | Work packages and project team members
Peter is the project manager of a project that is halfway through the execution. Peter is currently looking at the schedule of work. He adjusts a few of the schedule milestones and imposes date constraints for some of the work packages. This relates to which of the following processes? | Control Schedule
Which of the following process groups involves people and resources coordination, stakeholder management, as well as integrating and performing the activities of the project in accordance with the project management plan? | Executing Process Group
A small project with a limited budget is trying to curtail costs. Which of the following processes may be eliminated in such a project? | Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis
Predicting future performance based on historical events is called ______________ . | Trend analysis
An issue log or action-item log is a tool that can be used to document and monitor the resolution of issues. At a minimum, the issue log should contain: | An owner name and a target resolution date.
The Create WBS process identifies the deliverables at the _______________ level in the Work Breakdown Structure (WBS). | Lowest
You have utilized 360-degree feedback techniques for your information gathering and are in the process of giving formal feedback to team members. You will be setting specific goals for employees for the remainder of the project. Which technique are you utilizing? | Project Performance Appraisals
You are managing the communication requirements for your project. You find that certain general management skills come into play as part of managing stakeholder requirements and that there are different dimensions to communication that you have to plan for as the sender of information. Which of the following is not a dimension of communicating? | Forward / backward communication
During the execution of a project, a need is felt to make major changes to the project stakeholder management plan. What must the project manager do first? | Issue a change request.
Decision tree analysis is used to calculate the average outcome when the future includes scenarios that may or may not happen. What is the input and output in a decision node? | Input: Cost of each decision Output: Decision made
You have been called in to give an executive presentation on the status of your project. Just before you walk into the meeting, you are informed that a critical resource for the project is no longer available, and could result in a substantial delay to the project. However, you believe there may be an alternative resource that could be used. What do you tell the executive committee? | Advise the executive team of the situation exactly as you know it to be at that moment.
Which of the following is not an example of data that may be presented in a performance report? | Project charter
You’ve just completed a solid waste management project in an under-developed country. The contractor you are working for has a strict policy of abiding by local laws and rules, although the local resources working on the project have a much more lax approach to following laws and policies. Now at the end of the project, you are handing over the operational equipment to the local operators and disposing of the leftover inventory and other furniture which was used during the project. More than 50% of the toxic materials used during the project remains in your inventory. There is no law that would prohibit you from disposing of either the type or quantity of remaining materials in the local sewage system. What should you do? | Do not dispose of the materials improperly.
A very critical resource is on another project team. It is very important you get his time for your project. You have contacted his team’s manager multiple times, but have received a poor response. What should you consider doing next? | Try to use management influence to obtain the resource’s time.
A project manager is about to start on a new project. Where would he find details about his authority level in the project? | The Project Charter
The WBS represents all product and project work. The total work at the lowest levels should roll up to the higher levels so that nothing is left out and no extra work is performed. This is also called as: | 100% rule
Which of these statement correctly links project and product life cycles? | A project life cycle is generally contained within a product life cycle.
If you are requesting a vendor quote for a defined scope, what is the recommended contract type? | Fixed price
Jane is managing a multi-million dollar shopping complex construction project. The buyer of the project is an external entity. After identifying all the key and major project stakeholders, Jane is now planning to carry out a comprehensive stakeholder analysis. Which of the following is not involved with the stakeholder analysis? | Resolving stakeholder conflicts
Which process is MOST responsible for managing changes to the schedule components of the Project Management Plan? | Control Schedule
Control Schedule is part of which Project Management process group? | Monitoring and controlling
Activity attributes extend the description of the activity by identifying various components associated with the activity. Typically how many attributes are associated with each activity? | The number of attributes varies by application area.
You are a project manager for your company. Part of the project requires producing 10,000 widgets, which your company will outsource. The company has agreed to pay all related costs and 5% of the estimated project costs. What type of contract has been negotiated? | Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee contract
Jane works as a project manager for the National weather agency. She has been managing a project which was designed to find the impact of climate changes on Northern mountains. The initial study established two months delay for the testing equipment to reach mountains due to road construction. However, a recent assessment has shown a significant drop in the delay time because of rapid progress in construction. Which of the following steps should Jane take next to account for the change in the delay time? | Update the risk register
Peter wants to assign a risk owner for every project risk for which a risk response action has been planned. Where must he update this information? | Risk register
One of the senior team members, who is the best performer in your project plays ‘favorites’ and a few of the team members who work closely with him, have got very good appraisal reports in the past, even though they may not have deserved it. As the project manager, what would you need to proactively do? | Speak to the senior team member and ask for appraisals to be done fairly, in accordance with the appraisal guidelines.
When are risk identification activities performed? | Ongoing throughout the project
Emily’s project has got a huge number of key positive and negative stakeholders. It is very important to closely manage the influential negative stakeholders to ensure project’s success. Do the key positive stakeholders need to be managed as well? | The positive stakeholders need to be closely managed as well since stakeholders’ needs and expectations change over time.
A project manager is looking at various classification methods to share information among project stakeholders. Which of the following correctly classifies the different methods used? | Interactive communication – Meetings; Push communication – Newsletters; Pull communication – E-learning repository
You are fairly new to project management, but have been successfully managing a small project and now management has given you another project to manage, which you are excited about. However, the new project is growing exponentially everyday, you have also learned a project manager you work with managed a similar project last year. What should you do? | Obtain Historical Records and get guidance from the project manager
Risks may be identified during the entire lifecycle of a project. Identify Risks is what type of process? | Iterative
Organizations evaluate the need of buying products versus making the items themselves. Which of the following is not a factor that influences the make-or-buy decisions: | Total duration of the project
A project manager used the services of a trained moderator during the Collect Requirements process. Which of the following is likely to have required the services of a trained moderator? | Focus groups
What is the best way to show, at a glance, all the work packages or project activities assigned to a specific organizational department? | Organizational Breakdown Structure
You are in the initiation phase of your project and believe the project can be completed for $100,000. However, you are an experienced project manager and know that many things can happen between the initiation phase and the closure of the project. You have provided an estimate in the project charter of $75,000 – $175,000. This is an example of? | Rough Order of Magnitude Estimate
A seller started out a project on the basis of a Time and Material contract. The initial contract amount based on the agreed-upon rates and effort was $ 100,000 over a 1 year period. However, when the project was completed, the total contract value turned out to be $ 350,000 over a 2 year period. What mechanism could the buyer have used to prevent this unlimited cost growth and schedule change? | Use of a not-to-exceed value and a time limit on the contract.
A project manager has been asked to manage a research project. By its very nature, this type of project is not very clearly defined and involves a lot of uncertainty. What phase-to-phase relationship should the project manager use for this project? | Iterative relationship
The Make-or-Buy analysis is a technique that is used as part of the Plan Procurement Management process. It is used to determine whether a particular product or service can be produced by the project team or should it be purchased. The analysis to arrive at a decision should include: | Direct as well as Indirect costs
Which of the following is accurate regarding the Estimate Activity Resources process? | It involves determining what and how many resources will be used
You are managing a software development project. The project will involve working with a remote team. One of the requirements is to set up a secure communication link. The lead-time to setup the link is 45 days. Since the initial phase of the project involves requirements gathering, you feel that the link is required only after 3 months and are planning accordingly. You would typically do this planning activity in: | The Plan Procurement Management process
You are a project manager for KTmart and are currently engaged in a highly visible project. The company is about to implement an independent review to ensure that the project work is continuing to comply with the project’s policies, processes, and procedures. During which process would this review occur? | Manage Quality
Due to unforeseen circumstances your supplier has run out of the cement needed for your construction project. What is the BEST strategy for dealing with this issue? | Implement a workaround
A project manager is estimating project costs and needs to decide whether the estimates will include only direct costs, or whether the estimates will also include indirect costs. In which of the following phases does this decision need to take place? | Estimate Costs
Which of the following is the correct statement regarding the Identify Stakeholders process? | It is an iterative process.
As project manager, you find you are constantly dealing with conflict amongst your team members. Everyone argues over sharing available project resources so you plan to use a conflict resolution method to alleviate the tension between team members. What conflict resolution method is NOT recognized by the Project Management Institute? | Elaboration
Which of the following is accurate regarding Project Integration Management? | The need for it becomes evident in situations where individual processes interact
Which of the following is a tool or technique used in the Monitor and Control Project Work process? | Expert judgment
John is attempting to calculate the average financial impact of some future uncertain scenarios. What method could he use? | Expected monetary value analysis
A ___________ is a collection of projects or programs grouped together for strategic business needs. | Portfolio
The termination clause and alternative dispute resolution (ADR) mechanism for each procurement in a project is documented in: | Agreement
The WBS is a deliverable-oriented hierarchical decomposition of the work to be executed by the project team, to accomplish the project objectives. This is created as part of: | Project Scope Management
A Work Breakdown Structure is a hierarchical illustration of all the work to be done in a project. A WBS component does not represent: | project activities
A project charter that formally authorized a project was created. The project charter documented the initial requirements to satisfy stakeholders’ needs and expectations. How often should the project charter ideally be revised? | Never
A project manager is performing Reserve Analysis as a technique in one of the project management process that he is currently working on. Which of these is likely to be that process? | Estimate Costs
As the project manager of a high-visibility project, you are in the process of Identifying risks. You are concerned that the data you collect might be biased. A technique that helps keep the bias out of the data and keeps any one person from having undue influence on the outcome is: | Delphi technique
Colocation is also referred to as: | Tight matrix
The Identify Risks process involves determining which risks may impact a project. It is considered an iterative process. What is the frequency of the iteration? | The frequency of iteration will vary based on the situation
You are managing a project to manufacture widgets for a customer. The customer has come to the factory to examine the product, and determines that while the product itself meets its requirements, the manner in which about half the widgets have been packaged does not meet requirements and is insisting they be repackaged. This re-work will require considerable time, resources, and cost to complete. The investigation into how and why the packaging was problematic, revealed that no process was developed to govern how the widget was to be placed in the packaging. The result is that the assembly line workers developed their own processes for packaging. What do you do? | Notify the project stakeholders immediately and accept responsibility for the failure to develop and implement a packaging process.
A Responsibility Assignment Matrix illustrates the connections between the work that needs to be done and the project team members. A RACI chart is a type of Responsibility Assignment matrix where the names of the roles being documented are: | Responsible, Accountable, Consult and Inform
As part of risk planning, some responses are designed for use only if certain events occur. A project manager of a multi-year project decided to trigger one such set of responses during the Monitor Risks process. Which of the following is likely to have triggered the responses? | Missing an intermediate milestone
A project manager who is a PMP discovered that there had been an error in the estimation of a project. A certain cost had been double calculated with the result that the budget, which had already been approved, was now in excess by a figure of $ 25,000. She is aware that publicizing this information will cause her to receive a poor performance appraisal since her company is very fastidious about such matters. What should she do? | She should bring this to the notice of the appropriate stakeholders and have the necessary steps taken to decrease the budget.
You, as an independent consultant, are working with a project manager of a spacecraft parts manufacturing project to make sure that the team comply with organizational quality policies and procedures. Since parts made in this project must adhere to high precision and accuracy, you are documenting the gaps within the processes and procedures to improve the quality for customer acceptance. Which of the following best represents the project management activity you are doing? | Quality audits
An important aspect of project management is the handling of stakeholder expectations. Typically, at what level are the stakeholders with respect to the project manager. | At all levels and with varying degrees of authority.
A project manager creates a component-specific tool to verify that a set of required steps have been performed. This tool is called a: | Checklist
As the project manager of a large project, you have just completed the Estimate Costs process. As you begin the Determine Budget process, which of the following would you require as inputs? | Activity cost estimates, Basis of estimates
You are meeting with your team, early in the project, and would like to address all the strengths, weakness, opportunities and threats the project is facing. What tool should be used? | SWOT Analysis
A cost, time, quality, technical or resource value is used as a parameter and included in product specifications. Crossing this value triggers some action such as an exception report. This value would be called: | A threshold
Peter is the project manager of a project that involves a buyer-seller relationship. The source selection criteria is an input to which of the following processes? | Conduct Procurements
John is in the execution phase of a residential housing construction project. He has been informed of major scope changes from stakeholders in the middle of the project. These changes involve regulatory requirements from local authorities that may impact not only the scope but also the cost and duration of the project. What should be the FIRST approach from John in considering these changes? | Create a report detailing the impact of scope changes on project parameters such as cost, quality and schedule
As part of the Plan Risk Management process, a project manager is looking at the activity of preparing a risk management plan. Which of the following is true about risks? | A risk may have one or more causes and, if it occurs, may have one or more impacts.
What BEST describes the role of the project team members? | To perform the project work
You have a team of engineers working on your project. Two of the engineers have frequent disagreements. You ask them to resolve their differences through a discussion. However, that does not yield any results. Subsequently, you get involved and based on an analysis of the situation, suggest some changes in the way they work with each other. This still does not yield results and you find that the project schedule is beginning to suffer. What is you next course of action? | Take Disciplinary action, if required, since the needs of the project are not being met.
Joel is managing a high priority project for his organization. The project has recently lost the support of the key stakeholders. Despite a number of efforts, Joel has failed to realign the stakeholders and regain their support. What should he do now? | Seek the project sponsor’s assistance
You are two days late on reporting status for a project that you are managing. The status report indicates that the project is lagging behind schedule. During the current week, you are confident of making up some of the lost time. How should you report project status? | You should report project status exactly as it is. You may also mention that you expect to make up some of the lost ground, but will truthfully represent current status.
A project comprises of a virtual team with team members located in different offices in the same city as well as across different cities. The project manager wishes to built trust and good working relationships. One of the best ways to do this is: | To use team-building strategies.
The scope of work in a project could not be clearly defined. There was also a strong possibility that the scope would be altered during the course of the project. Which type of contract would suit this type of situation? | Cost-reimbursable contract
Which of the following statements are NOT true considering the planned value, the earned value, the schedule variance and the cost variance of a project? | The earned value is the value of work to be completed in terms of the approved budget
Peter has been assigned to build a new office facility for his organization. Peter finds out that there are a big number of key stakeholders that are neutral to the project. Peter’s stakeholder management strategy must focus on? | Converting these neutral stakeholders to supportive stakeholders.
The project charter defines the overall scope and objectives of a project. Considering different inputs to the project charter, which of the following is NOT a correct statement? | Government or industry standards cannot be used as an input to develop a project charter
Jane is managing a complex industrial process reengineering project. She has identified all of her key project stakeholders and has conducted individual interviews with them to identify other project stakeholders as well. However, Jane is still not comfortable with her project’s stakeholders list as she believes there would be more key external stakeholders still missing from the list. What can help Jane in this situation? | Seek expert judgment from subject matter experts.
A group of people were discussing multiple alternatives during the Collect Requirements process. One of the individuals in the group made the decision for the group. This method of reaching a group decision would be termed as: | Dictatorship
Emily is the project manager of a project that involves a buyer-seller relationship. The source selection criteria is an input to which of the following processes? | Conduct Procurements
You are managing a heavy equipment manufacturing project that involves many mechanical, electrical as well as IT staff. Your team prepared a schedule network diagram using duration estimates with dependencies and constraints. Your team also calculated the critical path for the project using late and early values. Today, your project office has indicated about the non-availability of some of the resources you planned for the project. Now, you explore the possibility of modifying the schedule to account for limited resources. What is your best possible step in such a situation? | Recalculate critical path using the critical chain method
Which process group corresponds to the “do” part of the plan-do-check-act cycle? | Executing
You have your project team members record the time they spend on different activities during the day such as: programming, electrical, HVAC, etc. This is an example of a tool and technique in what process? | Monitor and Control Project Work
Which of the following may help in ensuring that certain bidders in the procurement process do not receive preferential treatment that all prospective sellers have a clear and common understanding of the procurement? | Use of bidder conferences
While analyzing the risks in a project, a project manager came up with a Risk Urgency Assessment document. In which process would this be done? | Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis
You are in the midst of a major code roll out for a new software module. However, it has come to your attention that the resources promised for the roll out are not going to be available. As the Project Manager, what is the BEST thing to do? | Explain the impact of the lost resources to the stakeholders
You are an expatriate working in a foreign country and have been asked to offer a cash payment gift to the procurement manager at a company you are bidding on work for. How BEST should you interpret this request? | Base your interpretation of the request on an understanding of the norms of the country you are in.
John, a project manager, for Code Crashers Inc. has been assigned a project where he must lead a group of inexperienced programmers in developing a software package that creates Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for a chemical company. This is very similar to a project that his colleague, Peter, worked on in 2006, with some junior programmers. If John needs to come up with a rough order of magnitude estimate, what tool or technique should he use? | Analogous Estimating
The Project Manager controls the interfacing and overlapping areas of the organization’s procurement processes, and the project schedule with processes from this area: | Project Integration Management
You have landed your dream job, as project manager working in an exotic sports car factory. Your project involves coming up with a smoother ride for the car. You have tasked the engineers to determine which type of suspension and what type of tires will provide the best ride and the most reasonable cost. This relates to which of the following processes? | Plan Quality Management
You are assigned to prepare the Procurement Management Plan for a project that involves setting up an org-wide supply chain management system. You are looking for a guideline on what type of contracts you can use and what type of contract forms are to be used for this project. Which source will help you obtain this? | Organizational Process Assets
You have been managing a construction project in a developing country and are closing down the project. The tools and equipment that was used on the project has to be returned to your company’s European headquarters. A non-governmental organization that builds and repairs medical facilities in this country has come to you to request that this equipment be donated to them. What should you do? | Notify the appropriate management.
Stakeholder identification is a continuous process. Which of the following statements about stakeholders is incorrect? | A project manager needs to focus on the positive stakeholders since their needs are best served by the project
Emily is worried about her project because many of her tasks are slowly moving and two critical tasks may have the chance of slippage. She conducts a thorough resource analysis and finds out that there are five resources who will be free next week. She would like to use this as an opportunity to assign those resources to finish her tasks early and prevent the project completion date from slipping. This is an example of? | Crashing
Why are the approved change requests input to the Direct and Manage Project Work process? | Approved change requests are implemented by the project team during the Direct and Manage Project Work process.
Jane is managing a software development project. During one of the project update meetings, one of the key stakeholders raised a serious concern about the new project management approach being applied on the project. The rest of the stakeholders are comfortable with the new project management approach being used. What should Jane do? | Have a separate one-to-one meeting with the stakeholder if the issue is not resolved during the update meeting.
You are a Project Manager working on a project to create high efficiency electric motors for a company introducing a new electric golf cart. Your company’s president is keenly interested in the project and requests a chart that shows the number of defects by type ordered by their frequency of occurrence. Which type of chart would BEST meet this request? | Pareto diagram
Which of the following is neither an input nor an output of the Direct and Manage Project Work process? | Approved deliverables
Peter is managing a multi-million dollar project. The project is in the planning phase and has a big number of key stakeholders. During an analysis, Peter finds out that there are big gaps between the current and desired engagement levels for most of the key stakeholders. What should Peter do next? | Brainstorm on the stakeholder management strategies that can close these gaps.
You are working in an Information Technology project as a project manager to develop a shopping website for your customers. Some key stakeholders in the project suggested scope changes to improve the look and feel of the website. Your team has analyzed the impact of these changes and presented to the change control board for approval. What should be your next step if the change control board accepts all proposed changes? | Revise cost estimates, schedule dates, resource requirements and planning documents
A project manager was assigned to a project as the project charter was being developed. Which of the following is an input that the project manager will utilize to develop the project charter? | Organizational Process Assets
As part of the Plan Risk Management process, a project manager is looking at the activity of preparing a risk management plan. Which of the following is true about risks? | A risk may have one or more causes and, if it occurs, may have one or more impacts.
A management control point where scope, budget, actual cost and schedule are integrated and compared to earned value for performance measurement is called a: | Control account
You are working as a project manager for MICTECH, an IT organization having a projectized organization structure. You have recently started managing a project that involves stakeholders from within and outside your organization. The stakeholders external to your organization are very critical as their interests are negatively affected by the project. You are making serious efforts to gather their expectations and influence levels early in the project to make sure that their voice is heard and proper communication needs can be planned in the future phases of the project. The outcome of your effort can be documented in: | The stakeholder management plan
A project manager is estimating the project duration and finds that the only information available to him is a previous project that was quite different from the current one. However, some portions of the previous project were similar to the current one. Which of the following tools is the project manager likely to use? | Analogous estimating
You have just received notice that the organization you’ve been working for as a project manager has gone bankrupt. All employees have been given 72 hours notice of termination. What is the best course of action for the two projects you are managing? | Follow company directives.
Which of the following documents will help trace the requirements to product design? | Requirements traceability matrix
The sponsor of your facilities upgrade project has left the company to another organization. Few weeks later, you are reviewing the business case for the project and discover that there are several inconsistencies between what is stated in the business case and what is described in the project scope. Further research shows that the business case as a whole is based on inaccurate information. What do you do? | Notify your project stakeholders immediately.
If you want to reduce the number of quality inspections and thus reduce the cost of quality control for your project, which technique should be used? | Statistical Sampling
You are the project manager from a seller organization, based at the customer location. One of your team members is involved in certain unacceptable activities at the customer location. The HR manager of the customer team organizes a meeting between you, the team-member, your customer- manager and HR wherein the team member apologizes for his activities and agrees not to repeat them. You should: | Report this incident immediately to HR of your organization and to your managers.
A project manager would find team development to be the MOST difficult in which type of organization? | Functional organization
A project manager is currently ensuring that the stakeholders clearly understand the project goals, objectives, benefits and risks. This relates to which of the following processes? | Manage Stakeholder Engagement
When beginning a new outsourcing project, what is the best way to determine which companies you should request a bid from? | Consult the qualified sellers list
A manager asks you to evaluate four new projects that he has suggested for next year. You review the projects and notice that one is not really a project, but more an operational task. Which of these is not a project? | Manage a set of people for the next year to deliver the desired productivity results
In a matrix organization, where the team members report to both, a functional manager as well as a project manager, generally, whose responsibility is it to manage the dual reporting relationship? | Project Manager
In a sender-receiver model for communication, information is sent and received between two parties, defined as the sender and the receiver. In such a model, anything that interferes with the transmission and understanding of the message is called: | Noise
John, a project manager, is a certified PMP. He is responding to an RFP from a buyer and needs to fill in details on the financial performance of his company. His company has performed badly during the current quarter and the results will be published in 2 to 3 days’ time. However, the company has done very well in the previous quarters. The RFP is due in 10 days’ time and all the other information in the RFP is ready and filled out (except the financial information). What should John do? | John should wait until the current results are out and update the latest financial information before sending out the RFP response.
You are working for GOODROAD highway construction agency as a project cost estimator. The agency started a highway construction project which is in it’s planning phase. The rough order of magnitude (ROM) cost estimate for the project is expected to be between 3 and 5 million dollars in the planning phase with a ROM of -25% to +25%. What will be the ROM estimate in the execution phase if it changes to -10% to +10%? | Between 3.6 and 4.4 million dollars
All of the following activities are performed in the Close Project or Phase process EXCEPT | Sending the deliverables to the customer for acceptance
You have been managing a construction project in a developing country and are closing down the project. The tools and equipment that was used on the project has to be returned to your company’s European headquarters. A non-governmental organization that builds and repairs medical facilities in this country has come to you to request that this equipment be donated to them. What should you do? | Notify the appropriate management.
You are a Project Manager working on a project to create safe electric motors for Tessla introducing a new electric car. Your company’s president is keenly interested in the project and requests a chart that shows the number of defects by type ordered by their frequency of occurrence. Which type of chart would BEST meet this request? | Pareto diagram
Calculation of late finish dates and late start dates for the uncompleted portion of the project is called  . | A backward pass
The morale of the team members of a project is very low. The team members feel that they were not given opportunities to participate in the organizational team development activities due to over allocations to project tasks, and hence they missed opportunities to grow. Which of the following is a primary factor for this situation? | A poorly defined resource calendar
You have been chosen by a program management office (PMO) to write a purchase order for your expertise in business writing. You have learned that the PMO has already selected a seller for a software product and would like to award the procurement contract to the selected seller as a purchase order which you must prepare. In this scenario, the PMO is administering: | The conduct procurements process
The Identify Stakeholders process is an initiating process. At this stage, which of the following organizational process assets is the most crucial input to this process? | Lessons learned from previous projects.
Peter works as a project manager for GOODSTEEL, a steel melting shop. He was assigned by his Executive Project Manager to study and prepare a report on the defects that eroded the blast furnace lining which has caused a drastic decline in production. Since this report will be used by the management to control the process and material quality, Peter performed a careful study and identified two major factors out of many factors related to refractories that caused majority of the lining problems. Which of the following statements BEST illustrate the technique Peter must have used in this scenario? | A Pareto chart indicates that the vital few sources of the problem.
You are managing a project for a customer that has just gone bankrupt and is subject to liquidation proceedings. There are several outstanding invoices that this customer has not paid to your company. What should you do now? | Contact the appropriate management at your company for advice how to proceed.
The product design your project team developed was very well received by the customer. There were two key contributors to this design. The customer calls you to tell you how pleased he is with the design. What do you tell him? | Thank him on behalf of the team and call out the contributions made by two of the team members.
In a multi-phase project, the procurement team decided to close the procurements applicable to a particular phase of the project. What happens to unresolved claims? | Unresolved claims may still be subject to litigation after closure.
Your most recent quality control chart shows that all data points measured fall within the control range. However, there is a group of 8 consecutive data points sitting above the mean. What do you do? | Tell the stakeholders there is a possible quality control issue and you are investigating the cause.
You are planning a storage device migration in a data center. During this phase of the project, who should be controlling the project? | Project Manager
As part of a strategy to handle negative risk, a project manager decided to adopt less complex processes, conduct more tests and choose a more stable supplier. What strategy would this be classified as? | Mitigation
Your manager is presenting a status report of all projects being run in his division. He reports that all projects are showing a positive CV. However, you know that your status reports for the last several weeks have been reporting a negative CV. What do you do? | Notify the appropriate management immediately.
Peter is managing a software development project. The buyer of the product is an external entity. During the execution of the project, Peter finds out that a new operations manager has been hired in the customer organization. The new manager is now a key stakeholder of the project. Which of the following documents is least likely to get updated as a result of the addition of this new stakeholder? | Issue log
A project manager included contingency reserves and management reserves in the total budget of a high-risk project. He also made certain earned value measurement calculations. Which of the following is incorrect? | Contingency reserves are not part of the project cost baseline.
Most project management software packages use a method of constructing a project schedule network diagram known as: | Precedence Diagramming Method
Breaking down project activities into smaller components in order to obtain a more accurate cost estimate is called: | Bottom-up estimating
You have been assigned as project manager of a software development project. One of the requirements is to use a remote team and you find that that the remote team has limited technical communications capabilities. This is an example of: | A constraint
Which of the following is not a general management technique used to generate different approaches to execute and perform the project work? | Map Out
A detailed milestone list is created as an output of what process? | Define Activities
You have just completed the first phase of a multi-phase project. You have performed the earned value measurements and found out that the current CPI is 0.79, the current SPI is 0.98. Your next phase plan should focus first on which element of the project? | Cost
Which of the following should you NOT use as an input into creating the WBS structure? | Bill of Material (BOM)
Your project team has recently identified a risk in the software development project and decided not to change the project management plan to deal with the risk. The risk response strategy your team used in this scenario is an example of: | Acceptance
A first-time project manager was assigned to a project that had a duration of 3 months. In order to gain a head start in the project, she took an older, completed project and incorporated all the tools, techniques and checklists from that project in their entirety into the current one. The older project had been completed in 14 months’ time and was very similar in nature. The most appropriate comment on this would be: | This may be unnecessary. The project management team needs to decide what is appropriate for the project.
A measure taken to bring future results in line with the project plan BEST describes? | Corrective action
Jane is managing a project in a Functional organization. In this organization, she can expect to find that: | Management systems are not designed to support project needs efficiently, and project management is difficult.
A project manager in a seller organization discovered that certain deliverables had been handed over to the buyer without undergoing proper testing. Recalling the deliverables will result in a cost overrun to the project. What should the project manager do in such a case? | Recall the deliverables even though there will be a cost overrun.
On obtaining the project charter, the Project Manager of a project immediately starts acquiring the project team (Acquire Resources). Is this correct? | No. Acquisition of the project team is primarily an Executing Process Group activity.
A first-time project manager created a Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) where the deliverables had different levels of decomposition. What would your comment on this be? | This is fine. Different deliverables can have different levels of decomposition depending on the work involved.
Product scope is measured against the product requirements whereas project scope is measured against: | The project scope statement and its associated WBS and WBS dictionary
You are negotiating a contract with a seller. You want to go in for a Fixed price type of contract. The seller uses a different terminology for the fixed price type of contract. He is most probably referring to it as a: | Lump sum contract
Many project managers have seen a graph which shows “Influence of Stakeholders” starting out high and declining as the project progresses. Conversely, it shows the “Cost of Changes” starting out low and increasing as the project progresses. What is the key message a project manager should obtain from this graph? | Changes should be made as early in the project as possible.
The manager of a project, that your company is running in another country, is at the corporate headquarters for a company-wide project management meeting. During a break, you overhear the project manager discussing payments made to local municipal governments for construction permits for his project. Your company has a strict policy about paying or taking bribes. What should you do? | Do nothing.
You are a project manager who is in charge of an important project for your company. The project is 40% complete after 3 months and has cost $350,000. The budget for the project is $950,000 and is scheduled to last 8 months. How is the project performing? | The project is ahead of schedule and under budget
A project consists of multiple phases. Which of the following is a valid statement and applies to each phase of the project? | Each phase of the project is generally concluded with a review of the work accomplished and deliverables to determine acceptance and whether the phase should be considered closed.
The selection of life cycle for the project, the processes to be applied to each phase, and the results of the tailoring by the project management team are usually found in the: | Project management plan
The total planned value (PV) for a project was $ 150,000. During the course of the project, the actual cost incurred turned out to be $ 275,000. What is the limit that the project manager usually imposes on the actual cost (AC)? | The AC will not have an upper limit.
You are managing a medium sized construction project, and are reviewing some invoices from the electrical contractor. You see that materials not required for your project have been included on the invoice. After making a few phone calls it becomes clear that one of your project resources asked one of the vendor’s staff to add a few extra circuits to one part of the building. This change was never approved through the change management process. What do you do? | Immediately inform the project stakeholders of the unauthorized scope change. Then call a team meeting to determine the impact to the project.
During the course of the project, the project management team developed a forecast for the estimate at completion (EAC) based on the project performance. Which of the following statements about EAC is correct? | The EAC forecast based on the Bottom-up estimate to complete (ETC) requires a new estimate.
Jane is the project manager for a healthcare facility construction project. She is currently holding a board briefing and updating the project’s current status to the board members. When Jane was presenting her project risks, the chairman suggested some preventive actions. What should Jane do first? | Jane should write a change request
Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) is a non-proprietary approach to Quality Management. This is an analytical procedure in which: | Each potential failure mode in every component of a product is analyzed to determine its effect on the reliability of that component and, by itself or in combination with other possible failure modes, on the reliability of the product.
A project manager is looking at a make-or-buy analysis as part of the Plan Procurement Management process. What type of costs should the project manager consider for this analysis? | Both direct as well as indirect costs
As a project manager, you are performing various project performance measurements to assess the magnitude of variation. You then attempt to determine the cause and decide whether corrective action is required. This would be known as: | Variance Analysis
Midway through a project, a project manager determined that the project was running way behind schedule. If the project manager needs to shorten the project schedule, without changing the project scope, which of the following schedule compression techniques could be applied? | Crashing
You are the project manager managing a project to design a print head for dot matrix printers. In order to determine ideal settings for print quality, the quality manager of the company suggests trying out various scenarios for printing by varying certain parameters on the print head. Identifying such variables which influence the product or process under development is called: | Design of Experiments
You are a certified PMP, and have been contact by PMI as part of an investigation they are conducting into allegations of improper conduct by your manager, also a PMP. A complaint has been filed stating that your manager has received bribes related to a large procurement contract on another project. PMI has asked if you would be able to provide information regarding this situation. What should you do? | Notify the appropriate management immediately.
A team of engineers is reviewing the architecture diagram for a new ERP system being deployed at a large accounting firm. The engineers are discussing the impact of the failure of each node in the diagram on overall availability of the final product. The intent of the discussion is to minimize the likelihood of failure and the effects of any failure. What is this called? | Failure Mode and Effect Analysis
Emily is managing the construction of a new office facility for her company. The project is half way through the execution. The project sponsor has asked Emily to ensure that all they key project stakeholders are still committed to the project. How can Emily assess the stakeholders’ current engagement levels? | By communicating and interacting with the key stakeholders
What term defines the work needed to complete a product, service, or result? | Project scope
A buyer and seller are looking at getting into a long-term relationship spanning over 10 years. Both parties would like to be protected from the unstable financial conditions of the country that are beyond their control. What type of contract is appropriate for such a relationship? | Fixed Price with Economic Price Adjustment Contract (FP-EPA)
You are the project manager of a project and are about to conduct a risk identification exercise in a few days’ time. You would like to proactively remind the participants in the exercise of the various sources from which risk may arise in the project. What could you use to help you do this? | A Risk Breakdown Structure (RBS)
You have recently taken over a troubled automobile project which has gone out of control. The project team missed many deadlines and stakeholders were not happy with the project progress. As an experienced project manager, your first priority is to bring the schedule into alignment with the project plan. You would like to use what-if scenario analysis to see how various factors affected the project schedule so that you can develop a plan to reduce the impact of adverse conditions on the project schedule in future. What would be your next course of action once you determine the factors that created schedule overrun? | Generate change requests for a corrective action
The date through which the project has provided actual status and accomplishments is called: | Data Date (DD)
The most effective method of resolving conflict or other issues with stakeholders is _____________ . | Collaborate
A project involved development of a high speed hard disk drive. As part of its testing, the hard disk was subjected to continuous operation at a high speed and an elevated temperature. At the end of the test, the hard disk was destroyed beyond use. The cost of such testing is usually classified as: | Appraisal costs
Jane has just started the Identify Stakeholders process for her project. She is currently looking for a template for the stakeholder register so that she doesn’t have to reinvent the wheel. Where can she find stakeholder register templates? | Organizational process assets
